Subj:  Re: Cthulu in space
Date:  95-12-02 05:34:09 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{comparing various B5 characters to Lord of the Rings characters}

     The characters and comparisons you made are basic archetypal characters
that have long been used in all kinds of sagas...the voice of the wise
master, the characters of action, the hero on a journey, the smaller wiser
folk...they extend far beyond Tolkein.  We draw on the same archetypal pool,
but there's no intended parallel between them.  What invariably gets lost in
this is that the LoTR saga was a *quest* story, that is the heart of
it...ain't no quest here.  The characters are part of the saga-structure that
goes straight back to the Illiad and the Odyssey, Gawain and the Green
Knight, Jason and the Argonauts and elsewhere.  The only common elements come
from the fact that we have our roots in the same literary garden of
archetypes and literary symbology.

     I didn't fight for five years to get this show off the ground just to do
LoTR with the serial numbers filed off.


jms


Subj:  Re:Hope for Vir, the Furst
Date:  95-11-30 02:46:24 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{about Stephen Furst's guest appearance on Chicago Hope}

       The Chicago Hope appearance is only a two-parter, nothing beyond that.


jms

Subj:  Re:Gethsemane 
Date:  95-12-03 06:07:11 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{why did Ivanova tolerate Lyta so readily?}

      Real simple.  Lyta has proven that she was telling the proof about the
traitor; and she's on the run from the Psi Corps herself, putting her and
Ivanova on the same side; and she helped when she was asked to try and find
Edward.


jms


Subj:  Re:X Glen X
Date:  95-11-28 22:12:43 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

     Tell me, Blacnignt9, how does it feel to be a racist?  Because that's
what you are.  Oh, yes, you can be a non-caucasian and be a racist.  And you
definitely qualify.

"I must assume that there is a conscious at work and I don't find that to be
the case."  (I assume this is a misspelling of conscience.)  If I were to say
this about any ethnic group as a class, such as african-americans, you would
call me a racist.  And you would be right.  And it's just as racist as to
make sweeping comments about other races such as this.

"...you are living proof that if I turned my back on you that I would die."
If I said this about a hispanic, it'd be racist.  Same here.

"I have lived a long time and the one theng that has remain constant is the
fact the when ever you have a chance you will hurt us, and hurt us badly."
Here you are speaking of caucasions as a race again.  This kind of sweeping
statement is racist.  It is also wrongheaded and offensive.

What about the half million white folks who died in the Civil war to end the
brutality and monstrous practice of slavery?  More were killed in the course
of that war than in all of our losses in every war thereafter combined.  

How about the Swedes, who never even *saw* an person of african descent for
most of their country's history?

And while we're at it, what about my caucasian friend Lisa, who volunteered
as a rape counselor in a predominantly black lower-class neighborhood, and
was murdered for her efforts?  Yes, sir, I can sure tell that she was out to
hurt other people like yourself, wasn't she?

The heart of racism is stupidity and intolerance and classifying every member
of an ethnic group as being the same, usually in a negative fashion.  By that
definition, you are a racist, and I suggest before you start correcting
others on this area, you do a little housecleaning of your own first.


jms


Subj:  Re:YOU PEOPLE ARE SICK
Date:  95-12-01 03:45:08 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

      The reason Laurel Takashima/Tamlyn Tomita is not currently on the show
is because the actress didn't feel really comfortable in the role of a
military commander, and felt she might do better in other kinds of roles,
such as that which came along about the same time in a major motion picture;
she is now a highly-sought-after film performer.  When she opted out, I went
instantly after Julie Nickson, an asian actress to play Catherine Sakai,
Sinclair's love interest, a recurring role in the show.

      And check my message uptopic...there's a racist here, all right, and
it's you.


jms


Subj:  Re:Blacnight9
Date:  95-12-03 05:55:38 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

       Blacnight: okay, you've been hurt.  Three words: deal with it, but
frankly, if you use this as a motivation to become just as racist in your
descriptions of caucasians then you have totally and utterly sacrificed the
high ground in the discussion.

       Lemme explain something to you: I didn't come into the world with a
silver spoon.  We were poor.  I'm not talking poor lower case letters, I'm
talking POOR.  We lived in houses without roofs, without heat in the winter,
always on the run from creditors.  You know where poor folks live, Blacnight?
In the poor part of town, which was usually the ethnic part of town.  Most of
my life I lived in areas that were mainly black, or hispanic, or puerto
rican.  I lived in Newark just before the riots, as a kid, the only white kid
on the whole BLOCK.  I've got class photos from schools as a kid, and you
look for row after row, and in the lines of brown and black faces, you find
one -- ONE -- white face.  Mine.  It ain't a case of "well, sure, some of my
friends were black," ALL of them were.  Or Puerto Rican.  Or Hispanic.

      And at those schools, because I was always the new kid, I got the snot
beaten out of me on a regular basis.  Usually by kids with skin color
different from my own.  Because that's usually all there was in the
neighborhood.   So I got hurt, I got beat up, constantly.  Now, do I turn
around and say that all black/hispanic/puerto ricans are bad people?  No.
Some were great, some were real jerks.  Some helped me.  Some hurt me.  I
deal with it *without* coming up with sweeping generalizations about whole
groups.

     For as long as you continue to make sweeping statements about caucasians
-- and you have not responded to one of the responses I made to you before on
this -- then you are every bit as racist and prejudiced as those you say you
are against.  You come on, make one sweeping generalization, go away, then
come back with another.  You don't listen, you just accuse and take the role
of angry victim.  Well, fine, like I said, I've lost dear friends to people
of other colors than my own...but I don't turn around and blame the whole
group for the actions of a few.

     If you're concerned about the well being of other african americans, let
me ask what you're doing positively about it?  Working with inner city kids?
Neighborhood programs?  What?  Or are you content to just come on here and
complain?  

     African-americans and hispanics have *got* to be brought into the
mainstream of american political and economic life; we cannot long sustain a
disenfranchised class determined by ethnic background.  That way lies madness
and destruction for all parties.  On my show, I do as much as I can; on the
side, I tithe a goodly percentage of my income to charitable causes, AIDS
research, People For The American Way (which fights tyranny from the left and
the right in censorhship issues), and other causes.  Because it ain't enough
to complain; you've got to go in and DO something.  You talk the talk real
good; how're you fixed for walking the walk?


jms

Subj:  Re:B-5 newsgroup
Date:  95-11-30 02:49:24 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{will you be leaving AOL too?}

       I have no plans for leaving here anytime soon, Angelica.  I hope to be
here for the long haul.


jms


Subj:  Re:B5 Universe Questions
Date:  95-12-01 03:53:56 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

Mass drivers use asteroids freely available in space, accelerated and fired
into a planetary atmosphere.  EA non-rotational ships have zero g.  EA tech
is generally much lower in weapons tech and other areas than the Minbari and
Vorlons, among others.


jms

Subj:  Re:Licensing & Your Audience
Date:  95-12-01 03:59:02 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{you're letting Creation do B5 merchandise?}

     We're aware of the rep that Creation has, and I've been very open in my
criticism of them when they've done something dumb, both in my talks with
them privately, and on the nets.  They know that if they do a Dumb of Bad
Thing, I'm going to call them on it.  I'll also note when they do things
right.  And thus far, for the most part, they've done okay by B5.  I've
worked closely with them on the licensing aspects, and some of it is really
quite cool, and the rest is fine.  (They have come out with two recent items,
a B5 leather jacket (a bit over-priced, I think, but extremely cool
nonetheless), and B5 mugs with the logo on one side, and the silhouette on
the other in silver against black that's just *killer*.)

     I don't feel sufficiently comfortable at this time to do a B5 convention
with them; but I have made an occasional personal appearance, and found that
they are genuinely interested in trying to straighten out their rep.  A great
deal of the problem stems from the fact that they often work with local folks
in the area as hosts who often don't know what they're talking about.  So now
they're cutting back a little, trying to do fewer, better, than a lot, less
efficiently.  


jms

Subj:  Re:To JMS
Date:  95-12-01 17:52:49 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

     Hogan: thanks.  And at this point, we're in no particular jeapordy of
being canceled; the ratings keep improving, slowly, but it's there, and the
folks at WB have openly discussed the notion of our fourth season long before
those words would usually ever come out of their mouths, so we'll probably be
okay.


jms


Subj:  Re:VIDEOS
Date:  95-12-02 01:49:28 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{about video releases}

     The difference is that we want them to do it, and they don't think that
there's a market.  You tell me how to resolve that difference, and I'll go
for it.  


jms


Subj:  Re:Without Makeup
Date:  95-12-02 01:50:31 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{will actors appear without makeup?}

      It's been discussed, but the actors, particularly Andreas, are dead
against the idea, on the theory that it ruins the illusion.


jms


Subj: Re:Schedules and Reruns
Date:  95-12-02 05:27:09 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

      The rerun schedule is to accommodate the PTEN desire to have new eps
for sweeps periods, and nothing else.  I'm sitting on a bunch of new episodes
that're just gonna sit on the shelf until January.  (Hey, everybody come on
over to my house, we'll have a viewing party....)


jms


Subj:  Re:Episode #4
Date:  95-12-02 05:28:20 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{"Passing Through Gethsemane" -- the interrogation scene was disquieting.}

      Yes, that's definitely the sense I was going for.  That scene frankly
unsettles and scares me a little, because it does show our characters
skirting the line...yes, it's absolutely necessary, every moment is precious
if they're going to try to save Edward's life...but it's still a bit creepy.


jms


Subj:  Who Works For Whom
Date:  95-12-03 05:33:02 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

     I post this here only because this was forwarded to me in private mail,
and if this utter and absolute lie is being circulated, best to quash it
right here and now.

     The email comes originally from a certain individual on usenet who does
not merit his name being mentioned, and this is, as stated an absolute and
total and complete lie of the worst sort I have seen in a while.  It concerns
my departure from rastb5, predicated in large part by actions taken by this
individual who is running like mad to find some other reason to attribute
this to.  The relevant quote follows:


"And his retreat just happens to correspond to the introduction of the
new Babylon 5 area on AOL.  And isn't it amazing how his "formal
termination" of his presence on this group is 30 November.  Bet it
corresponds to his new contract on AOL which starts on 1 December, and
includes a clause regarding his participation on the Internet."

     1) I have no contract whatsoever with AOL concerning my presence here.
2) I am not being paid one thin dime for my participation on AOL.  3) Not
only do I not receive anything for being here, I pay for my subscription here
just like everybody else on AOL, no freebie account, nothing.

     There is no contract, and no cause in that contract.  I'm happy to bring
my AOL bill to the next convention to prove this.  (I think it was $80 last
month.)  

     It's this kind of lying behavior by a certain few demented individuals
that made my departure from rastb5 inevitable.  This particular lie is made
more disgraceful by the fact that it is stated as cold fact, not speculation,
not rumor, but cold fact...and is utterly, 100% untrue.

     If you folks have to pay to be here, then I'll pay to be here.  (Though,
granted, I do have freebie accounts on GEnie and in one or two forums on
CIS.)

     Sorry for the interruption; just felt this was necessary to nip in the
bud.  As you were.


jms


Subj:  Re:Videos
Date:  95-12-03 05:34:14 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{who do we write about videos?}

      That info has been given out elsewhere, and it hasn't done any good, so
we're looking into the possibility of releasing them ourselves.


jms


Subj:  Re:Rangers
Date:  95-12-03 05:35:06 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{how long have the Rangers been around?}

      Yes, there'll be other Rangers in episodes here and there.  There was a
kind of loose-knit Rangers notion back on Minbar but it didn't come into full
bloom until Sinclair arrived and took charge of the operation.


jms


Subj:  Re:JMS:Writing
Date:  95-12-03 05:36:54 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{about writing plays}

     The play format varies a little here and there; I'm addressing this in a
rewrite I'm finishing now of the writing book.

     Re: the number of episodes I write...basically, it's just the number I
feel is right to communicate the sense of the show in that season.  One of
the main reasons I *created* B5 in the first place was to make a show I'd
like to watch, and to write for.  So now that it's here, I'm following up.


jms


Subj:  Re:Q about season schedule
Date:  95-12-03 05:38:09 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{reruns before "Severed Dreams"?}

      At this point, it looks like there may be a break before #10, though I
haven't seen a final schedule on this.  It ain't what I would do...but it
ain't my call, alas.


jms


Subj:  Re:Coming Changes: JMS
Date:  95-12-03 05:38:40 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{changes in the EA uniforms?}

      Yeah, there might be some changes here and there....


jms


Subj:  Re:Who's Garibaldi's Second?
Date:  95-12-03 05:39:11 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

      Zack.  


jms


Subj:  Re:Episode #4
Date:  95-12-03 05:41:23 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

      How Sheridan and Garibaldi got away with it?

      "Telepath?  What telepath?  Never happened.  Can you describe her?  No?
I see.  Well, I don't remember seeing anyone in there, Mr. Garibaldi, do you?
We'd check the logs to be absolutely sure, because we'd hate for this sort of
thing to happen, but we had a small glitch in the software, and the recorders
didn't work...still, we're working on it, and we hope to have it taken care
of in the next few months.  Would you like some more tea, Ambassador?"


jms


Subj:  Re:Star trek still rules
Date:  95-12-03 06:05:13 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

"'Without ST none of these other series would have been born."

      Sounds good.  Only thing wrong with it is that it ain't true.

      Prior to ST, there were the SF anthology shows such as the Outer Limits
and Twilight Zone and One Step Beyond and Men Into Space and many others;
just prior to ST there was Lost in Space.  (And by the way, most critics at
the time panned ST because they said it was just a cheap attempt to cash in
on LiS's popularity.)  So you could easily say that ST wouldn't be on the air
except for LiS, if you're going to follow your logic to its ultimate
conclusion.  And let's not forget Forbidden Planet, which is almost a
template for ST.

     Finally, I'd note that if ST was responsible for other shows coming
along in that same vein, why have there been no others in 25 years until B5
(in terms of series set in our future, with us as a spacefaring civilization,
with a fully worked out cosmology/universe)?  Do you know why it took 5 years
to sell B5?  Because we were told, by execs at CBS, NBC, ABC, FOX, Showtime,
HBO, and elsewhere that -- and this is a direct quote -- "There's no room for
any other SF show of this kind other than ST.  The market won't sustain it."

      ST has been used as a rationale NOT to do space SF for *years*.  We had
to fight like mad to overcome that notion.  So you'll understand why, having
fought for years to overcome the roadblock that ST was in terms of selling
B5, why I can only shake my head when someone tries to attribute the presence
of this show to ST.  


jms


Subj:  Re:Vorlons as Angels
Date:  95-11-30 02:39:56 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

       Also, it has not been stated anywhere that the Vorlons created the
angel element; they could easily just have come in and tried to exploit
it....


jms


Subj:  Ratings
Date:  95-12-02 01:46:18 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

     Every so often, this flares up, and I have to kind of get into it.  Yes,
Bruce would like the ratings to get better, because he feels that this show
is at least as good as ST, if not better, and thus deserves the same ratings.
This is not a reasonable expectation, I think; ST has almost 30 years of
presence in the public consciousness.  You can't beat that.

     What *is* important is that we have continued to get the level of
ratings required for renewal.  You don't have to be a top-10 show, or even a
top-20 show; that's only the very tip...there are about 250 syndicated shows
out there, and we are invariably in the top 35-40 out of 250, the ratings are
either constant or growing in various markets, and the demographics (the kind
of people watching the show) are exactly what the advertisers want.
Consequently, the ads sell for very good prices to the sponsors...and WB is
making money on the show.

     There's this recurrent wave of panic about the ratings that's really not
merited.  The fact is that Space Rangers is off the air, Time Trax is gone,
SeaQuest has sunk, Earth 2 has fallen out of orbit, Sliders is gone, VR5 is
gone...of all the SF shows introduced the same time or after we were, only B5
and DS9 are still here.  They're gone because they didn't get the ratings
necessary for renewal.  We're here because we do.  It's really that simple.

     I've never intended this show to be a Huge Landslide Success, a
*FRANCHISE* a la ST.  I want to tell this story, and it's the kind of story
that kinda grows on you.  If you want to get the really big numbers, you have
to dumb up the show, bring in kids, have lots of women in skimpy outfits, and
make it into something other than what it is.  And once you *become* a
franchise, you get Noticed by the studio types...when you get Noticed by the
studio types, suddenly they want to protect you...protect the show...and any
stories with teeth in them get knocked down, all the corners get filed
off...and you've got something soft and inoffensive and essentially
meaningless.

     If I for a *moment* genuinely thought that this show was in any measure
of jeapordy, I'd be right here banging the drums and sounding the clarion
call and urging everyone to go out there and move and start letter campaigns
and make lots of calls.  You'll notice I'm not doing that.  Because it's not
necessary.  The show is doing well enough to go on, and that means the story
will be told, the way I feel it has to be told.  

     If that should *ever* change...believe me, you'll hear about it.


jms


Subj:  Re:ATTN JMS: Feeelthy Pirate
Date:  95-12-07 05:31:04 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{about pirated merchandise}

      All info on feelthy pirates gladly accepted so that we may go and whomp
them.

     Thanks.


jms


Subj:  Re:Epic Parallels
Date:  95-12-07 05:25:59 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{Similarity to La Morte D'artur: Arthur's and Mordred's armies are poised
for battle but make one last attempt to negotiate, but a soldier raises
his sword to kill a snake and everyone attacks.  Compare this to the
emperor's peace overture in "The Coming of Shadows."}

      There's another applicable metaphor for the sword story; you'll see it
a little later this season.  Very good catch, btw.


jms

Subj:  Re:The "Core"
Date:  95-12-07 05:28:11 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{God is the core of Christianity, not an emotion or a moment.}

      Filops: take it to the religion topic.  That's what it's there for.  If
you wish to write long polemics on religion, that's fine, but do it in the
appropriate place.  I really don't want bunches of topics to get filled up
with rehashings of this stuff.  Thanks.


jms


Subj:  Re:Show me to my ghetto?
Date:  95-12-09 02:17:58 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

      The issue at hand is courtesy.  I know that a lot of people here want
to discuss other areas than religion; there is a religion topic that is where
religion messages should go, just as notes on merchandising go in
merchandising, and items on ratings go in ratings...it makes it easier to
find the topics that interest you, and keeps the conversation from being
monopolized across various folders.  

     As I told you in private mail, very often your messages on religion
really have *nothing* whatsoever to do with B5, but rather with the issues
that are of importance to you about religion, gays, whathaveyou...and you
thus shoehorn them in...you do it here, you've done it over in the B5 folders
in the SF-Television areas...and what happens is that the religion wars that
erupt, due in some measure to some of the rather inflammatory tone you use,
tend to keep other users away who just don't want to see it One More Time.

     But there are religious elements in the show that can be
discussed...hence I made it a point to open such an area.  Use it.  That's
what it's there for.  If someone were to put up a long note on ratings, I'd
point them to the ratings folder, simple as that.  Yes, it is your right to
say anything you so choose...and it is the right of myself and others to ask
you to show courtesy to your fellow users by doing so in the appropriate
forums.  Is not courtesy usually considered the christian thing to do?


jms


Subj:  Re:Show me to my ghetto?
Date:  95-12-09 02:22:17 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

      Mythopile: okay, maybe you don't care about keeping topics to their
intended use.  That's fine.  I have received mail from people who stress that
they are on limited incomes, and when they come in here, they only go into
specific forums because they can't afford to spend a lot of time on AOL.  And
they like to be able to know that when the click into a topic on Clams In B5
that they won't have to wade through a bunch of messages on other subjects to
find what they're looking for.  

     I have never, at any time, "thrown some guy" out of a folder.  I have
asked, simply, and only in a very few cases, that people try the folders
where their comments will reach the widest audience, since someone interested
in religion will go there first, and someone interested in ratings will go to
tha topic first, as a courtesy to the other users here.  Nobody here is going
to force you to be courteous.  I cannot do anything about it.  I can only
suggest courtesy.


jms


Subj:  Re:This folder's name again.
Date:  95-12-09 02:24:35 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{this is the B5 themes topic; religion is a theme in B5.}

      Yes, religion is a theme in B5, Filops...unfortunately, you never
*address* it...you only use this as a pretext to get into one of your long
diatribes about what you consider acceptable behavior, acceptable social and
sexual mores.  You use this only as a way to springboard into those
discussions.  I've seen you do it repeatedly over on the SFTV forums, and it
troubles me to see you doing it again here.


jms


Subj:  Re:JMS: TNT syndie question
Date:  95-12-05 03:31:37 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{any cuts being made for second-run syndication?}

       I don't know; my guess is that we're pretty close to the right time as
it is, so I can't see what would be accomplished by cuts.


jms


Subj:  Re:Post to rastb5 (re:Who Wo
Date:  95-12-05 03:36:02 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{about the bogus "JMS is being paid to be on AOL" message}

       Yeah, I suppose it can be reposted.  May stop some of this.  I hear
people are saying, "Hey, it's okay if he makes money being on AOL," defending
it, when it isn't true to *begin* with.  If I were doing so, if AOL thought a
B5 presence were important enough to pay for it, heck, I'd be taking out ads
in the Times.  But as far as AOL is concerned, I'm just one more subscriber,
and I pay my way same as everybody else.

      I just hope somebody's called the little twit on the fact that he went
around calling others liars, then went out and posted his message about my
alleged "contract with AOL" as though it were an absolute fact, even referred
to a clause *within* that contract...and clearly, obviously, flatly lied
about the existence of a document that isn't there.  It's a *deliberate*
lie...it isn't a speculation, wasn't phrased in the form of a question, he
deliberately went out and posted an out and out *verifiable lie* to the
entire usenet, knowing it was a lie.

      Never ceases to amaze me....


jms


Subj:  Re:jms:X-files w/ B5
Date:  95-12-07 05:05:41 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{B5 reference in the X Files?}

       Don't know if the beacon reference was toward us or not; but it's
still a great show, though it's getting a little convoluted even by their
standards lately.  Still, I'll keep watching....

      Re: elevators...at risk of repeating stuff I've said elsewhere...every
so often, I'll see a note from somebody saying that this show only gets by
because of its effects, that without that part it ain't nothin'...and just to
honk 'em off I'll sit down and write a killer scene with just one or two
characters in a room, no EFX, sometimes not even any music...and I often go
for the smallest room in the station...and that happens to be the transport
tube.


jms


Subj:  Re:Who Works For Whom
Date:  95-12-07 05:08:37 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

 "(still not sure which name to call you)"

     It's just Joe.  


jms


Subj:  Re:JMS:Matters of Honor 
Date:  95-12-07 05:09:28 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{Shadows at the bar in "Matters of Honor?"}

      Yes, that was a little hint of the shadows around Morden for those
sharp enough to catch it.


jms


Subj:  Re:A very different question
Date:  95-12-07 05:12:24 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

      I'm working on a Dell Dimension 90mhz Pentium, 2 1-gigabyte drives, 4x
CDrom, 32 megs memory, 17" Nanao monitor, Soundblaster sound card, #9GXEpro
64 bit video (identical system in office, I'm at home now, except office
system has 128-bit Imagine video card)...and I'm using a US Robotics
v.Everything Courier modem at 28.8 speed.


jms


Subj:  Re:Question about the actors
Date:  95-12-07 05:14:43 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{how often are actors paid?}

     In the case of the regular actors, and the producers, you are paid a
certain fee per episode contracted for (22 episodes for regulars, 13 or 8 for
recurring cast members, 22 for producers).  That amount is then broken up
into about 50 weeks (I think maybe 40 or so weeks for actors, John Copeland
can probably be more specific on this), and you thus get a weekly check based
upon that.  


jms


Subj:  Re:B5 and DS9
Date:  95-12-07 05:16:48 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{White Star related to DS9's Defiant?}

      The White Star was always in the plans for the series; it's an
outgrowth of everything that has gone before.  We've seen big warships,
dreadnoughts, smaller ships, and personal fighters.  This fits right in.  If
you're going to have a war over a long distance, you kinda need something to
get in and out with.

      I actually don't watch DS9 as a rule, so I really can't comment on its
current storylines.


jms


Subj:  Re:To JMS
Date:  95-12-07 05:20:30 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{Don't let the Usenet folks annoy you.}

      Thanks.  If it were just me, I could try to ignore some of the
nonsense; but the problem was that it soon involved vast numbers of other
people, who were being flamed or driven off the system, and every thread was
contaminated by it.  A number of folks came to hang out at rastb5 because I
was there, as many of them have stated since; that wasn't/isn't the only
draw, theres' lots of good conversation, but that was a component...so my
being there put people in the position of being available to be attacked,
derided, flamed, insulted and assaulted, and I can't allow that to happen.
And it began to have an impact on my writing, and that I *definitely* can't
afford.

      One way or another, that particular chapter in the experiment will find
a way to continue, in the fullness of time.  I'm a patient man.


jms


Subj:  Re:JMS:- Throwaway Dialogue
Date:  95-12-07 05:21:18 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{You mentioned awhile back that some very important throwaway dialogue
was coming up. Was it Ivanova's "know all, see all" line, or Lennier's
"Minbari, but not born..." line?}

       Ah, now I can't make it *too* easy, now can I...?


jms


Subj:  Re:JMS, I commend you...
Date:  95-12-09 01:09:27 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

       Thanks, though I'm not entirely sure I emerged from all this totally
sane...if I had, I wouldn't be working in TV....


jms


Subj:  Re:Star trek still rules
Date:  95-12-07 04:59:35 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

      FWIW, I've seen most of the episodes of Space, and I quite like it.
The last one was especially good, in that I couldn't figure how they were
going to get out of this one, and I like being surprised.  Well done; the
show has promise.


jms


Subj:  Re:JMS Rocks
Date:  95-12-09 01:07:11 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

     In general, I've really had to stay away from anything even resembling a
story idea on the nets, so I don't use them, and haven't.  As for other
shows, my sense as a fan myself is that the more quality SF on the air, the
better; we've actually given tours and provided information on how we make
this show to other producers so that they can use the "Babylon 5 Model" in
helping to bring more SF to television.  The more the merrier.


jms


Subj:  Ratings and Bruce
Date:  95-12-06 04:00:30 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

     Just a note to mention that due to the lengthy lead times required by
national magazines, espeically those with an entertainment bent, that some
pieces are considered evergreens, and can be published anytime.  You build up
material until you're ready to go.  The piece in EW with Bruce came via an
interview conducted toward the end of the long summer slump caused by reruns.
Hence his comments.  They improved once the new episodes came back on again.


jms


Subj:  Re:Ratings
Date:  95-12-06 04:03:34 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{Don't call Star Trek a franchise.  They take big risks.}

     AcDec...all I can say is that you should talk sometime behind closed
doors, as I have, with many of the writers and producers who have worked, and
still work, on the various ST versions, who WANT to tell stories with teeth,
that challenge, but who are prevented from doing so by the suits eager to
preserve ST as an inoffensive franchise.  Sorry, but the logic still parses.


jms


Subj:  Re:Why I watch
Date:  95-12-09 01:03:00 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

     Lisala: Thanks.  We try to emphasize the voice of the storyteller as
much as possible, that we are creating...well, I don't want to say creating
new mythologies, because I don't think they are really created, they stretch
back to the foundations of civilization, and show up repeatedly in works of
literature...but reinterpreting and reinventing and clarifying the structure
of myth for a new generation.  


jms


Subj:  B5 *is* shot widescreen
Date:  95-12-07 04:55:04 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

     Two series, and insofar as I know, *only* two series are currently being
shot widescreen: B5 and Lois and Clark.  Here's easy verification: fire up
the first season tape of "The Parliament of Dreams."  Fast-forward to the
Minbari ceremony that's also used in the main title sequence.  Now compare
the two; you see more of the shot in the widescreen opening than in the
regular shot.

      We generally compose for widescreen but protect for regular aspect
ratio, which is how the show is broadcast currently in the US.  Sometimes it
gets a little glitchy; in "Matters of Honor," when Marcus hands off the
minbari fighting pike to Delenn, it's very visible in the widescreen shot,
but you barely see it on the edge of the regular shot.

      BTW, Germany and France have signed on to follow us through the
post-production process for (trying to remember now) either season 3 or
season 4, re-telecineing the negative stock back to the original widescreen
aspect ratio for broadcast in letterbox format in those countries.  The UK,
via Channel 4, is still in negotiations over this.


jms


Subj:  Story Arc
Date:  95-12-12 19:16:26 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{Too many filler episodes.}

     I just posted a lengthy reply to this basic thread over in the Season 3
topic (which is where I first encountered it).  That says pretty much
everything I wanted to say on the issue.  

     This happens every season.  Some people like shoot-em'ups and don't want
to see any other stories, deriding them as "filler" and let's get to the
blow-stuff-up stuff.  They seem to think that anything else is "lead" which
has to be gotten out.  Every season begins with standalone stories, from year
one to now.  Year two has The Long Dark and A Distant Star and Soul Mates in
the first batch up.  Then we hit the big arc stories, and everybody forgot
about the "lead."

     In season one, we had six or seven strong arc stories.  In season two,
there were about 9 really strong arc episodes.  In season 3, as of right now,
there are 13-14 very strong arc episodes.  In year 4, there will be about 17,
and in year 5 they're pretty much ALL arc episodes.

     The series is moving as fast as possible, and as fast as intended.  


jms


Subj:  Harlan Ellison Signs
Date:  95-12-11 03:56:20 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

      To avoid duplication, check out the message in B5 Merchandising about
Harlan signing stuff on the West Coast this coming week.


jms


Subj:  Re:The Last, Worst Hope for 
Date:  95-12-13 01:48:45 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

     Yeah, but it's very hard to do a story about preparation in the sense
you suggest.  "Well, let's go check out the White Star."  

     "Well...sure is a fast ship, all right...so, what're the Rangers doing?
Keeping an eye on stuff?  Good..good...so, what's for dinner?"

     Each individual episode must be *about* something, must have a story
that can stand on its own, separate from the arc, while adding to it.  For
what it's worth, "Voices of Authority," which was originally slated to run in
the first 4, *is* a preparation kind of story...it gets into how they should
be gearing up for what's coming, the accumulation of allies and resources,
all that.  Had it run as planned as #4, this would be answered.  But the
sheer volume of CGI required, which was pretty hideous, put it into the #5
slot, which we thought would still be in the first block of episodes.  Then
we found that #4 was the cutoff point.  

     All I can tell you is that what you're asking for is *there*, plain as
can be, right in the very next batch of episodes.  (Also, do bear in mind
that the "shadow war" referenced in the show operates as more than just
discussing the shadows themselves, but what's going on back home as well.)


jms


Subj:  Re:The Last, Worst Hope for 
Date:  95-12-15 02:21:31 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

     Thanks.  No, you can't please everyone, I learned that lesson a long
time ago.  What you have to look at are the percentages.  No matter *how*
wonderful the work, there will always be a certain portion who won't like it
because it isn't to their tastes.  That simple.  (I like bluegrass,
classical, Japanese music, celtic music, hard rock, and others...can't abide
straight-ahead country music or opera.  That's just how I'm hardwired.)  So
basically, a work of superior quality will get about 40% who love it, 50% who
think it's good, and 10% who hate it.  A middle of the road work gets
30/30/30.  A flop gets the first breakdown but in reverse.  There's never
been a novel, story, song or painting that everyone on the planet thought was
nifty, without dissent.  So as long as the percentages favor the notion that
we're doing right, I'm okay with it.

     As far as the assessment of this latter stuff being my best work...god,
I hope so.  I've been writing and selling since I was 17; in TV for a tick
over 10 years, and the absolute honest truth is that I think I'm just now
*starting* to get halfway decent as a writer.  So many years you spend just
pumping out the bad stuff, the cliche characters, the implausible plots,
until you finally get to the good stuff.  I write 7 days a week, 10 hours a
day, 52 weeks a year, except for my birthday, my spousal overunit's birthday,
christmas and new year's.  I'm in constant battle with the English language,
slamming together different combinations of verbs and nouns and adjectives,
hoping to provoke an explosion whose flare can illustrate a notion, or incite
a moment of reflection.  And half the time I feel like it's a losing battle;
the language beats you every time.  But if script #152 is just 1% better than
script #151, well, that's progress.

     And then I make the mistake of sitting down and watching something by
Serling or Chayefsky or Rose or Corwin, and conclude instantly that I should
get out of the profession before somebody discovers I'm a fake.  THOSE guys
could WRITE.  Hell, they didn't just write, they thunder'd and lightning'd
over the typwritten page, and the echoes have followed us down for decades.
So maybe someday, if I work hard, and write to the best of my ability, and am
sufficiently honest in what I write, I'll be good enough to carry their
pencil cases....


jms


Subj:  Re:The Last, Worst Hope for 
Date:  95-12-16 03:18:33 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{how can people be interested in a show that's getting cancelled all over?}

     Kydreamer: what you have to remember is that the syndication marketplace
is undergoing *huge* changes right now, and has been for the last year.  In
most markets, you're lucky if you've got even one or two independent stations
(non-CBS, NBC or ABC).  Between the growth of Fox, and UPN, those stations
are now almost all locked down, and are required by contract to give
preference to programming made by their affiliated networks.  Now you've got
2 hours a day that are available for prime-time programs, 8-10, that's it
(most indies usually show news from 10-11).  That's a grand total of 14 hours
a week, and there are currently about 250 syndicated shows all competing for
those 14 available hours.

     Usually, we rate between 30 and 50 overall, which is very good in that
crowd of 250, so in most cases holding onto the station isn't hard.  But in
some markets, where the squeeze is on, and there's only one station
available, if UPN or FOX pushes hard enough...the show goes.  This has,
however, happened in only about a handful of places out of something like 198
total stations, so we're still pretty solid.  The problem comes when 15
people in one area all post messages that their station has dropped B5, and
what people tend to see is that there are 15 messages about this, so it must
be a big problem.  (And in at least two, possibly three of those cases
another station, sometimes a *better* station, has leapt in to pick up B5's
contract.)

     We've had a number of preliminary conversations with the folks at WB to
determine how best to adjust to this in the fourth season, which at this time
is looking very encouraging.  Several notions have been suggested by them to
help counter or work with the changing syndication marketplace.  Some of them
are quite interesting, though it's too early to comment much more than that.



jms


Subj:  Re:Other Theme Possibilities
Date:  95-12-12 18:42:08 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

      Basically, any attempt to break down the B5 story into pure good vs.
pure evil is going to fall apart sooner or later.  The thematic elements
point to greyer areas: will you lead, or will you be led by others?  What is
your responsibility to the world around you, and how far will you go before
you do something drastically wrong?  The key themes in this show are choice,
and responsibility.

     How different would this story be if Londo had simply chosen *not* to go
the easy way and go to Mr. Morden?  We are here because he made certain
choices, and now he has to live with them.  Actions have consequences.


jms


Subj:  Re:Oedipus Rex and Shadows
Date:  95-12-13 01:43:47 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{CJ Cherryh deals with similar themes.  Will scripts be made available?}

      Actually haven't read much if any of CJ's work, though I really should
have.  The notion of hard choices, and responsibility, of course goes way
back through early literature and into myth.  
      Re: scripts...we do hope to make a limited number of them available
through the fan club, once that gets going, but that's about it.


jms


Subj:  Re:Other Theme Possibilities
Date:  95-12-14 17:11:48 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{The Shadows probably don't consider themselves evil}

     Good point.  The monster almost never sees a monster in the mirror.
There can be all kinds of justifications for what one does....


jms


Subj:  Re:Other Theme Possibilities
Date:  95-12-14 17:15:29 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

      I think that in the larger scope, many things are going to happen
regardless...World War One would've almost certainly happened even without
the assassination of Archduke Ferdinand, but it might have happened later,
might have taken on a different form....

     But there's a great deal over which we *do* have free will.  Things
*can* be changed; if they can't, then there's not much point to living.  The
characters like to think they have no choice to comfort themselves with the
decisions they've already made.


jms


Subj:  Re:Beauty in the eye...
Date:  95-12-17 02:28:42 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{The Vorlons aren't good, the Shadows aren't evil.}

     On the other hand, to say the Vorlons are not good may also be to miss
the point, which comes closer to the issue of control, and the question of
being led vs. leading.  


jms


Subj:  Re:Franklin and Ivanova
Date:  95-12-11 21:16:39 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

"...each of the alien groups have only one religion, one government, one
appearance...."

      Actually, this is quite incorrect.  It's been established that the
Narns have competing religions (G'Quan vs. G'Lan vs. other systems), the
Centauri have a whole pantheon of different deities -- I seem to recall the
number was in the 70s -- with each having their own household god, certainly
the Minbari have three very distinct castes (with some differences in
appearances, the warrior caste having more threateningly-spiked crests, vs.
more rounded for religious caste), so there are definitely differences within
our various alien races.  And, of course, we've go the green drazi vs. purple
drazi situation to contend with, and accents vary as well...not every
Centauri has the same accent as Londo (which is more of the Old School of the
Centauri hierarchy), and not every Minbari speaks with Delenn's accent (which
is more from the southern region of the planet).  


jms


Subj:  Re:THE REAL WORLD
Date:  95-12-12 18:37:18 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

     Blacnight...this is really becoming pointless.  For one thing, you're
not listening to anyone else.  You come on here, and point to A...people
answer you, and explain or respond to some of your concerns about A, but then
you've moved on, you don't even deal with the question of A anymore, you've
moved on to B...and people try to respond to B, and now you point over there
to C.  You plainly have no interest in a conversation or a discussion, you
haven't answered any of the objections to your prior messages, you just come
in here to state and restate your position.  You're all over the place.
First you bring up Baywatch, then you say you don't care about Baywatch, you
flip all over the place.

     My bottom line, frankly, is that yes, of course there's racism in
society, nobody's debating that.  If that's the point you're trying to
communicate, then nobody here is going to dispute it.  But by speaking of all
caucasian people the same way, accusing them of all having the same behavior,
you are every bit as racist as those you complain about, and that's another
issue you've danced away from.  If I came on here and said about african
americans the kinds of things you've said about caucasians I'd be branded a
racist, and they'd be right.  

     In an early episode of season one (at risk of actually mentioning B5 in
this conversation), Sinclair makes the comment that "when you become obsessed
with the enemy, you become the enemy."  You have become obsessed with the
enemy.

     Anyway, this is the last response you'll get from me.  It's painfully
apparent by now, having given you every opportunity to show otherwise, that
you are not interested in a conversation, only in stating and restating your
position.  So the exercise becomes pointless.


jms


Subj:  Re:Well done, Michael
Date:  95-12-10 21:22:00 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{About the B5 presentation at Westercon in Phoenix, 1992}

     I remember that presentation, and it shares something special with
LosCon right before that.  At the time of the convention, all I had was my
word on the kind of show I wanted to do, my rep, and about 30 seconds of a
clip showing a ship docking at a beta version of B5.  That's it.  And even
though producers for TeeVee series are always coming in proclaiming that
their new show is the best thing since sliced bread, even though time and
time again we (speaking as a fan myself) it ends up being just another awful
show with genius kids and cute robots...even with all that, and so little to
show for what I had in mind...fans both in Phoenix and at LosCon sidled up to
the video clip, considered it, and the few other elements I brought to the
table...and said, basically, "Let's give the kid a chance."  It speaks
volumes of the willingness of SF fans to extend themselves, despite getting
repeatedly burned, when most needed.

     I've always been very moved by that, and whenever I've gone back (though
I forgot this last time), I've always asked, "Did I keep the promises I made
back then?"  The answer has always been yes.


jms


Subj:  Divided Loyalties
Date:  95-12-10 21:23:31 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{Was Garibaldi at Lyta's ship because the Rangers told him she was coming?}

     No, Garibaldi was there because the ship's ID# didn't check out, as he
stated, and it could've been in the process of smuggling or who knows what.
The "soldier/diplomat" comment came more from shaping where this season is
going.


jms


Subj:  Re:Mira's Past
Date:  95-12-10 21:24:19 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{What name did Mira Furlan use in earlier work?}

     No, her credit there reads Furlan; that's her name.  Her husband's name
is Goran Gajic.


jms


Subj:  Re:JMS: Spousal Overunit's n
Date:  95-12-10 21:27:40 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{Who's your SO?  Has she written for B5?}

     Her name is Kathryn M. Drennan, and yes, she wrote "By Any Means
Necessary" for B5.  She has written for other shows, mainly in the animation
area, and has worked as a journalist or feature reporter for newspapers and
magazines, including Twilight Zone Magazine, Women's World, and others.

     It was difficult at times with her doing a B5 script because I kept
second-guessing myself too much on my reactions, and I ended up making her
jump through a lot of hoops that nobody else had to go through because I have
a real problem with even the *appearance* of nepotism, so she ended up
working twice as hard as was probably necessary.  So far this season she
hasn't come across a story she'd like to write, so it's a moot point.


jms


Subj:  Re:To Jms
Date:  95-12-10 21:28:59 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

     Only a very few stations have dropped B5, mainly because there isn't
room any longer on their schedules due to an influx of UPN and FOX shows to
which they have prior commitments.  These number less than about 5 or so out
of something like 198 stations, and in several cases other stations have
jumped in and happily picked up the contract.


jms


Subj:  Re:actors
Date:  95-12-11 21:05:49 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

     Generally speaking, very few actors are online; Pat Tallman is over on
Compuserve here and there, Stephen Furst and one or two others come online
here from time to time...bits and pieces here and there.  Mainly, if there's
a message of interest, cast members find out by its being posted on the News
From The Nets wall over on stage A.


jms


Subj:  Re:To JMS re.the women
Date:  95-12-11 21:11:04 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{Will there be more female leads?  Will we see the Talia/Ivanova relationship
mentioned again?}

     I do see Lyta's role growing in the show, in the hopes of her becoming a
recurring character (main title) in time, and there are a couple of other
female characters I'm thinking about, but I don't generally think in terms of
quotas, 4 to 2 or 5 to 3 or whatever...you have to decide what works best for
the show and the story.  

     As for Talia/Ivanova...there's some closure to that right around
mid-season, which definitely clarifies their relationship.  Suffice to say I
think you'll be pleased.


jms


Subj:  Re:ATTN: JMS   Morden?
Date:  95-12-12 18:30:25 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

     Well, to the question of where the shadows are, I think that just got
answered...they're right here....


jms


Subj:  Re:JMS - thanks 
Date:  95-12-13 01:41:44 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{Which episode will shed more light on the Talia/Ivanova relationship?}

     Stacey: thanks, and look for something very significant to that
relationship in "Ceremonies of Light and Dark."  (Not as if it'll take much
attention...it kinda jumps out at you....)


jms


Subj:  Re:JMS: Questions on Pilot A
Date:  95-12-14 17:10:29 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{Re. "The Gathering," you said the person standing outside a door in one
scene would turn out to be important.  How?}

      I'm not entirely sure what this refers to; the only possibility that
comes to mind is that when the assassin finds Del Varner, he gets access via
a panel outside the door, and we either hear or see "Laurel Takashima,
Cleared To Enter."


jms


Subj:  Re:Jms RE: Ivanova 
Date:  95-12-13 21:26:13 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{You should use Claudia Christian more.}

     You're absolutely correct, which is why in the very first episode up in
the next batch, we send Ivanova off in the White Star as its commander, and
we involve her and her charactder more strongly in subsequent episodes as
well.


jms


Subj:  Re:JMS: Kudos and a Question
Date:  95-12-13 21:35:52 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

     One of the hardest questions for any writer to answer is where did the
story come from.  It's often a synthesis of lots of elements that sometimes
bursts through all at one shot, other times trickles out a bit here and
there.  

     With B5, I started from wanting to do a saga, wanting to produce an SF
show in a fiscally responsible manner (thus encouraging more of it), and to
do real SF.  The usual strategy used by other shows is the man or show on the
run...going in search of new worlds, or escaping from something, or trying to
get somewhere.  The Immortal, Battlestar Galactica, the various Treks, The
Hulk...all these and others used that approach, 'cause it's the easiest kind
of story to construct, and needs the least amount of work.  The downside,
though, is that you end up creating a venue in which you are constantly
distracting your story from your main characters by having to introduce the
Alien Of The Week, or the Planet Of The Week, establish them, their culture,
the problem they bring in...which leaves you very little room for real
character development.  And I wanted also to get into some of what's
happening on Earth, do a little extrapolative writing in politics, law,
criminal justice, sociology, religion, and other areas.

     This led me to the notion -- used in shows like LA Law or St. Elsewhere
-- of creating a place where the stories came to you, rather than vice versa.
This led me to the notion of a space station, a freeport in space.  Onto
this, I began to stitch the notion of a saga, a war, certain mythic and
archetypal constructs...anyway I was playing with all this, when one day the
whole story just sorta exploded in my head.  I saw the whole B5 sage, start
to finish, in one big flash.  I then spent the next year, as I gathered my
notes, and wrote the pilot screenplay, trying to write down and clarify what
I saw in that one moment of absolute clarity.

     It's those notes, written in 1986/87, which formed the basis for the
arc, and which I'm still using with some modifications today.  


jms


Subj:  Previews
Date:  95-12-14 03:52:18 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

     Since the question of what's coming up in the next batch of episodes has
arisen, I thought I'd go through and, while avoiding spoilers as much as
possible, give some glimpses into what's yet to come.

     This list is for the new episodes beginning in late January through the
end of February, in order.

     "Voices of Authority" - Earth begins tightening the screws on the folks
at B5 to try and exert more control there.  Steps are taken to help prepare
for the shadow conflict.  (Here, again, the "shadow war" means both the
obvious, and the more subtle conflict brewing at home; it's description and
metaphor.)  The White Star voyages to some territory not seen since the first
episode, Ivanova helms the ship, a major dramatic turning point is reached,
and there is the single funniest scene in probably the series to date.  A
strong arc story.

     "Exogenesis" - The last non-arc episode for some time.  Puts Dr.
Franklin and Marcus together investigating some odd happenings in DownBelow
that may indicate some kind of alien influence.  Does, however, introduce a
thread that will play out over time.

     "Dust To Dust" - Looks like a non-arc episode initially, but by the end
it has a strong effect on the overall storyline, and makes some permanent
changes in one of our characters.  Combines Bester, the telepathic-assault
drug Dust, weapons dealers, and brings to a head a major part of the
G'Kar/Londo thread.

     "Messages From Earth" - This begins the three-episode min-arc within the
larger arc that, by its conclusion, totally changes the structure of the B5
universe.  A mega-wham episode.  Because so much comes to a head so quickly,
little can be said about it without spoiling stuff.  Our characters begin
making the final and irrevocable steps that will put them on a collision
course with everything they have believed in until now.  There are four or
five episodes this season that push the limits of our effects and CGI to the
absolute wall; this is one of the biggest.

     "Point of No Return" - The same, but moreso.  Internal strife threatens
to tear apart the command structure of B5.  The Nightwatch thread comes to a
crisis point.  And Majel Barrett Roddenberry guest-stars in a B-story
involving Londo's destiny.


jms


Subj:  Re:To JMS re.the women
Date:  95-12-15 02:00:56 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{Where are the lesbians on B5?}

     Y'know, it kinda seems to me that if two women have a relationship, and
one leaves, the other still remains, so that answers at least one of your
questions....


jms

 
Subj:  Re:Q: Parliament of Dreams
Date:  95-12-15 18:50:07 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{How is "The Parliament of Dreams" an important arc story?}

      Well, certainly, the rebirth ceremony is a direct antecedent to
Delenn's rebirth in "Chrysalis," and we'll hear about the ceremony again.
Mainly, I think of it as a slight arc story in terms of the Delenn stuff.


jms


Subj:  Re:Pets
Date:  95-12-15 18:51:29 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{Why no pets on B5?}

     Where would you put pets there?  Noplace would really be safe.  It's
really more like a very large airport than a city...most people are just
passing through.


jms


Subj:  Re:World Series
Date:  95-12-15 18:53:43 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{Who won the sixth game of the "59 series?}

     Mars won the sixth game, but it was a squeaker, 5-4.  That tied it up
going into the seventh game, which Earth won on an RBI that Mars is still
challenging on the belief that the guy was really out at home, but that the
umpire was catering to pressure.


jms

 
Subj:  Re:To JMS re.the women  
Date:  95-12-15 18:56:02 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{If Ivanova is with a man, she'll be perceived as straight instead of bi.}

      Which, of course, is exactly *why* one cannot write to the current
political agendas on any side of the issue, because they're transitory,
they'll change in two weeks.  If you start saying, "Well, this kind of person
is *now* perceived THIS way this week, so I should change the story," you'll
end up chasing your tail (also chasing your tale) and soon you lose all sense
of direction.  So you do what's right for the story, and let the chips fall
where they may.


jms

 
Subj:  Re:B5 Universe Questions
Date:  95-12-15 18:57:45 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{There are no shock waves in space.}

      Okay, then 'splain me this: when the Pioneer space probe moved past the
speed of sound while it was in space, the monitoring station at JPL recorded
a *sonic boom* as the shock wave rolled over the probe as it broke the sound
barrier.


jms


Subj:  Re:Garibaldi Left Handed!?!
Date:  95-12-16 03:08:18 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

      I believe Jerry is left-handed, yes; doesn't really matter to me if
Garibaldi is a southpaw or not, it wasn't a stipulation ahead of time.
(Actually a number of our cast members are lefties; funny how that happens.)


jms

 
Subj:  Re:Quest/suggest
Date:  95-12-17 02:21:56 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{Lots of questions about future episodes}

     Unfortunately, the answer to virtually all of your questions is no, with
a few being "I can't tell you at this time."


jms


Subj:  Re:Experiencing Deja Vu...
Date:  95-12-17 02:22:27 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

     The next batch of new eps begins airing around January 22nd.


jms


Subj:  Re:Harlan Ellison
Date:  95-12-17 02:23:54 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{Is Ellison still working on his Dream Corridor books?  Did his story "Kadak"
inspire Ivanova's Chanukah celebration?}

     Last I heard, the Dream Corridor books will be coming out in a different
form, in larger trade editions, with new stuff.

     No, "Kadak" had nothing to do with Ivanova celebrating Chanakuh on B5;
the ceremony far predates Harlan's story....


jms


Subj:  Re:B5 vs Star Trek
Date:  95-12-16 03:07:15 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

       We've finally received the paperwork on the fan club, and one of the
things we plan to do is sell replica communication Links manufactured by the
same sub-contractor company that produces the actual props, so they're 100%
authentic; same with the EA pins and patches and some other stuff.  So hang
tight, you may get your wish.


jms


Subj:  Harlan Ellison in SF/LA
Date:  95-12-11 03:51:44 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

      B5's own Conceptual Consultant will be signing copies of his new CDrom
game, "I Have No Mouth, And I Must Scream," based on his award winning short
story of the same name, at Tower Records/VIdeo this coming week: on
Wednesday, December 13, in Los Angeles from 6-7:30 p.m. at 8801 Sunset
Boulevard, and in San Francisco at 3205 20th Avenue on Thursday, December
14th, from 6-8 p.m.


jms


Subj:  Re:different=same?
Date:  95-12-11 03:49:20 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

     "But what is truth?  Is truth unchanging law?  We both have truths.  Are
mine the same as yours?"  Pontius Pilot to JC in "Jesus Christ, Superstar,"
third act.

      For whatever reason, I know just about every line of that rock opera.


jms


Subj:  Re:Goodbye Babylon 5
Date:  95-12-13 01:38:40 EST
From:  Jms at B5       

{Too many filler episodes.}

       Thank you, Posti.  You have now posted your departing message in at
least three different folders, probably more.  We kind of get the point.  

       And it's story *arc*, not story *arch*.

Jms
