          "DILBERT" CREATOR SCOTT ADAMS
              APPEARS ON "BABYLON 5"

       Cartoonist drops in on what he calls
       "the best television show ever made"

     (Burbank, CA -- April , 1997) - Cartoonist Scott Adams, who satirizes
the American workplace each day in over 1550 newspapers around the world
with his comic strip, "Dilbert," makes an appearance on his favorite
program, "Babylon 5," airing (day and time on channel).

      Earlier this year, Adams character "Dilbert" listed his favorite
shows for TV Guide and picked "Babylon 5" as his top choice stating it is
--"the best show ever made." Producers later contacted him to discuss
appearing in an episode, and despite pressing deadlines for his latest
book, the cartoonist jumped at the chance.

     ""Babylon 5" is the only show I schedule my time around," he says.
"No matter how busy I am, I won't book anything when "Babylon 5" is on.
So when they asked me if I was interested in being on, I said 'of course.'
I mean, how often do you get to be on a TV show, let alone your favorite
show?"

     Producers originally talked with Adams about playing an alien
character, "but as it turns out, I play a human -- a slightly deranged
human, but a human nonetheless." In the "Babylon 5" episode titled
"Moments of Transition," he portrays a mystery man named, appropriately
enough, "Mr.  Adams", who solicits the services of former station security
chief and private investigator, "Michael Garibaldi" (Jerry Doyle),
supposedly to locate a lost dog.  "Garibaldi" decides the assignment is
not for him when the strange man cryptically warns him of a mysterious
plot to take over the galaxy.

     Attending to Adams' needs in the episode is his silent Minbari aide,
played by Adams' real-life girlfriend, Pam Okasaki. "I'm glad Pam had to
be the alien and not me," admits Adams.  "With all that makeup, I didn't
want to get all that sticky stuff in my hair."

     Adams called filming the episode at "Babylon 5's" Southern California
set "a blast," but says he won't give up his "Dilbert" gig any time soon,
even though he was required to apply for a Screen Actor's Guild (SAG) card
in order to participate in the "Babylon 5" episode.  While on the set, he
managed to achieve another objective -- to gather information for his new
book, "The Dilbert Future" (to be released in mid-May by HarperBusiness).

     Of course, "Moments of Transition" also features some more serious
business: Minbari Ambassador "Delenn," played by Mira Furlan, will make
the ultimate sacrifice for her people, telepath 'Lyta Alexander' (Patricia
Tallman) will accept a desperate proposition that could lead her back to
the hated Psi Corps and "Captain Sheridan" (Bruce Boxleitner) faces the
possibility of going to war with Earth.  "Moments of Transition" was
written by show creator J.  Michael Straczynski and directed by Tony Dow.

     "Babylon 5" stars Bruce Boxleitner, Claudia Christian, Jerry Doyle,
and Mira Furian.  Richard Biggs, Bill Mumy, Jason Carter, Stephen Furst,
Jeff Conaway and Patricia Tallman also star, with Peter Jurasik as "Londo"
and Andreas Katsulas as "G-Kar."

      Currently in its fourth season, "Babylon 5" is produced by
Babylonian Productions, Inc. and distributed by Warner Bros.  Domestic
Television Distribution.  J. Michael Straczynski is the series creator and
Douglas Netter and Straczynski are the executive producers. John Copeland
serves as producer and George Johnsen is co-producer.  Eminent
science-fiction writer Harlan Ellison is creative consultant.

      Online fans can visit the Official Warner Bros. "Babylon 5" web site
at: http://www.babylon5.com and the Official Fan Club site at:
http://www.thestation.com




        Contact:            Sandi Serling
                            Serling & Associates
                            xxx/xxx-xxxx
                            sandis955@aol.com

