"The First Lady of Star Trek"
Makes A Royal Visit to "BABYLON 5"
The Week of February 26, 1996

(Syndicated:  check local listings)

 For years, Majel Barrett had appeared among the esteemed celebrities at cult
science fiction conventions -- both as "Star Trek" creator Gene Roddenberry's
widow and for her recurring roles in all three "Star Trek" television series
and two of the six motion pictures.

 And each time she mentioned what many consider "Star Trek's" key rival --
the Emmy Award-winning TV series, "Babylon 5" -- the response, Barrett
remembers appreciatively, were shouts of "Bravo!" and "Hooray!," followed by
applause.

 Then finally, last fall Barrett's intergalactic path fatefully converged at a 
sci-fi convention in England with that of JMS -- as "Babylon 5's" revered
creator, J. Michael Straczynski, is known by his legions of on-line internet
fans.

 It seems that word had reached Straczynski that "The First Lady of Star
Trek" would welcome an invitation to appear in his compelling space saga, in
which the competing interests of five diverse races (four of them alien)
threaten to escalate into an interstellar holocaust.

 So upon meeting Barrett, Straczynski extended an invitation for her to
appear in a pivotal guest role.  She graciously accepted.  The script was
delivered to her hotel the next morning.  "And six weeks later we shot the
show.  It was just that simple.  Just that easy," she delightfully recounts.

 "It's the most incredible thing I've ever seen. This is a big, important
drama which is playing out over a period of five years, and Joe (Straczynski)
knows exactly where this story is going to go and how it's going to get
there," Barrett says of the  show's unique continuing storyline.

 Adds Straczynski:  "We're very pleased to have Majel appearing on 'Babylon
5.'  Because as the wife of 'Star Trek' creator Gene Roddenberry, her
appearance on our show will help dispel the notion -- held by some -- that
one cannot be a fan of both series.  

 "Majel and I discussed this between us, and we both view this rivalry as
unproductive.  We are both extending our hands across our respective fictional 
universes in a show of solidarity.  So we're very happy that she has chosen
to endorse 'Babylon 5' in this way, and hope that science fiction viewers of
all stripes will check out the series."

 For "Babylon 5," Barrett guest stars as Lady Morella, a seer and widow of
the recently-slain Emperor of the Centaurian Republic, who provides a
devastating vision of the future for the ever-scheming Centauri Ambassador,
Londo Mollari (Peter Jurasik), and his aide, Vir (Stephen Furst).  The
episode, entitled "Point of No Return," will air during the week of February
26, 1996 (check local listings for date, station, and time).

 Besides her recurring role as Lwuxana Troi in "Star Trek:  Deep Space Nine"
(and previously in "Star Trek:  The Next Generation"), Barrett starred as
Christine Chapel in the original series and the films, "Star Trek:  The
Motion Picture" and "Star Trek IV:  The Voyage Home."  She is also the
familiar voice of the computer on all three "Star Trek" series and the
animated television show of the 1970s.

 Currently in its third season, "Babylon 5" has been the recipient of two
Emmy Awards (for visual effects and make-up) and three Emmy nominations; The
National Foundation Award for Best Vision of the Future; and a Hugo
nomination from the World Science Fiction Association; among other honors.

 "Babylon 5" stars Bruce Boxleitner, Claudia Christian, Jerry Doyle, Mira
Furlan, Richard Biggs, Bill Mumy, Jason Carter, Stephen Furst, Jeff Conaway,
Andreas Katsulas and Peter Jurasik.  Douglas Netter and J. Michael
Straczynski are the executive producers, and John Copeland is the producer.
 Eminent science fiction author Harlan Ellison serves as a creative
consultant.

 Produced by Babylonian Productions, Inc., the series is syndicated through
Warner Bros. Domestic Television Distribution.
