    NORTH HOLLYWOOD, Feb. 26 /PRNewswire/ -- Netter Digital Entertainment,
Inc. (Nasdaq: NETT) today announced that, pursuant to a news release issued by
Turner Network Television (TNT) and Bradley J. Siegel, president of TNT and
Turner Classic Movies, TNT has ordered the production of two all-new original
Babylon 5 made-for-television movies.
    It was announced by TNT that the entire 88 one-hour episodes of the multi-
year story of the award winning science fiction series Babylon 5 kicks off in
January 1998 with a two-hour, original film "prequel."  "Babylon 5: In The
Beginning," featuring the cast of Babylon 5 will film early this summer for
premiere at the January 1998 launch of Babylon 5, with a second two-hour
original film scheduled for production later this summer.  TNT acquired the
exclusive cable rights to the series from Warner Bros. Domestic Pay-TV, Cable
& Network Features.  The Babylon 5 films are being produced for TNT by series
creator, J. Michael Straczynski, in conjunction with Netter Digital's Douglas
Netter and John Copeland.
    In the release by TNT, Mr. Siegel said "TNT's acquisition of Babylon 5
offers its millions of fans a unique opportunity to see the show's original
dramatic arc through to its conclusion.  Babylon 5 represents the type of
contemporary high quality programming we are now producing and acquiring at
TNT."  He went on to say, "The series' young, loyal viewers will now have a
national home where they can watch their favorite series as a community,
rather than the fragmented viewing that syndication provides.  We think this
helps make TNT very valuable to an important audience for us."  TNT is the
number one-rated cable network in primetime and currently seen in more than 70
million homes.
    A statement was included in TNT's release from Eric Frankel, Executive
Vice-President, Marketing, Warner Bros. Domestic Pay-TV, Cable & Network
Features, as follows:  "Babylon 5 is a unique series with an incredible
following.  Its current popularity and critical acclaim, along with these
world-premiere movies, will provide TNT with a great opportunity to launch the
series on its network."
    Douglas Netter, Chairman, President and CEO of Netter Digital, said, "We
are very pleased with Babylon 5's new home at TNT and look forward to our on-
going relationship with TNT.  This order for two Babylon 5 television movies
validates the Company's strategy to build programming franchises with its
production properties."  He went on to say, "The response from Babylon 5 fans
around the world is expected to be very favorable."
    Babylon 5, the two-time Emmy award winner earned its place in science-
fiction history last year when it beat out Apollo 13, Toy Story, 12 Monkeys
and Deep Space Nine for the Hugo Award for Best Dramatic Presentation, the
most prestigious honor in the science fiction field.  Babylon 5's victory
marked the first time in the 43-year history of the Hugo Award that a
television series other than Star Trek and Twilight Zone was honored.
    Netter Digital Entertainment, Inc. is a digital entertainment and
production company which utilizes high technology in creating television
series, movies, documentaries and multimedia productions.  The Company
specializes in creating science fiction programming which combines live action
with computer graphics and is presently expanding its capabilities from being
primarily a production company into a broader-based, technology-driven
entertainment company.  The Company currently produces the Hugo Award-winning
science fiction television series "Babylon 5" with creator and executive
producer, J. Michael Straczynski.

SOURCE  Netter Digital Entertainment, Inc.

