
                     PRODUCTION TEAM CREDITS


                         DOUGLAS NETTER
                       Executive Producer


                         JOHN COPELAND
                            Producer


    Babylon 5's executive producer Douglas Netter (also J. Michael
    Straczynski's partner in Babylonian Productions) and producer John
    Copeland serve as the CEO and Chairman and the Executive Vice President
    of Netter Digital Entertainment, Inc., respectively.


    Indisputably, they have become one of the most innovative and enduring
    teams in television production during the 17 years of their professional
    association.


    Together, they have pushed the edge of the envelope in terms of
    utilizing new technologies and production processes on behalf of the
    medium.  Among their remarkable contributions have been...shooting an
    entire (three-year) series on film and completing it using an electronic
    post-production process ("Five Mile Creek," 1981-83 for Disney)...the
    first-ever compilation of 3-D computer-generated characters in scenes
    with live actors in a television series ("Captain Power and the Soldiers
    of the Future," 1987 for Mattel)...and the landmark use of digital
    technologies and computer management systems for a documentary ("The
    Wild West," a primetime 10-hour syndicated series, 1992 for PTEN and
    Warner Bros.).


    They were also responsible for the concept of the Virtual Studio, which
    was perfected for "Babylon 5," but conceived by them years earlier.  And
    they played an instrumental role in bringing the revolutionary technique
    of producing state-of-the-art special visual effects through the use of
    low-cost computer-generated imagery (CGI) to television.


    As well, Netter is currently serving as the executive producer and
    Copeland as the supervising producer of ABC's acclaimed new children's
    science fiction series, "Hypernauts," which was created by Babylon 5's
    Emmy Award-winning special visual effects designer Ron Thornton (also an
    executive producer).


    Back in 1979, few would have predicted that the Netter-Copeland
    collaboration would last.  Separated in age by almost three decades, one
    had a wealth of top-drawer industry experience while the other's career
    was just beginning.  In fact, Copeland originally started out as just
    another hired hand on various Netter projects but quickly proved his
    indispensibility in getting the job done.


    Prior to founding Rattlesnake Productions (the predecessor to Netter
    Digital Entertainment, Inc.), Doug Netter had spent his life in the
    entertainment industry.  His last position, before going independent,
    was as the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer at MGM
    Studios from 1970 to 1975, during which time he oversaw the production
    of over 75 major motion pictures and numerous television shows, and
    played an instrumental role in the construction of the MGM Grand Hotel
    in Las Vegas.


    Meanwhile, Copeland was graduating in the first class of film majors
    from Chapman College, followed by a two-year stint in London working as
    an assistant director for English producer Euan Lloyd, then a year on
    European locations with the film, "Paper Tiger."


    In 1978, they were introduced by Lloyd.  During the next four years,
    they produced an award-winning Western mini-series, "The Sacketts," for
    NBC; two additional mini-series -- "Wild Times" and "Roughnecks" -- for
    Metromedia Producers Corporation; and a one-hour series pilot, "Buffalo
    Soldiers," for NBC.


    In 1981, Rattlesnake Productions became one of the first independent
    production companies affiliated with the Walt Disney Studios, resulting
    in the CBS TV movie pilot, "Louis L'Amour's The Cherokee Trail," and the
    three-year series, "Five Mile Creek," as a debut offering for The Disney
    Channel.


    Their 1987 science fiction series, "Captain Power and the Soldiers of
    the Future," for Mattel and the Landmark Entertainment Group, introduced
    them to J. Michael Stracyznksi (who served as their story editor) and
    Ron Thornton (a special effects supervisor in charge of the miniatures).


    While attempting to mount Babylon 5, they produced the 2-hour TV movie,
    "Captain Power and the Soldiers of the Future: The Legend Begins," for
    international broadcast, and two highly-inventive films for Lockheed
    (profiling the superiority of the F-22 advanced tactical fighter craft).


    Certainly one of the hallmarks of the company's many successes was their
    critically-acclaimed ten-hour documentary series, "The Wild West,"
    chronicling the settlement of the American West in the 30 years after
    the Civil War.  Syndicated in 1992 by Warner Bros. and the Prime Time
    Entertainment Network, "The Wild West" did for primetime television what
    "The Civil War" had done for PBS:  garnering record ratings and a deluge
    of TV book covers and rave reviews.  The series' pioneering use of
    digital technologies also resulted in the unprecedented simultaneous
    release of a CD-ROM, home video, book, and sound track album.  It was
    also the first time that a computerized software management system had
    been designed for use in a documentary, resulting in computerized
    tracking of the series' 14,000-plus period photographs, paintings, and
    critical documents.


    While simultaneously producing "Babylon 5" between 1992 to the present,
    Netter and Copeland were also responsible for the television movie,
    "Siringo," a western which was syndicated by Rysher Entertainment and
    United Television in 1995 and subsequently released in the U.S. and
    internationally on home video.  On November 20, 1995, Netter Digital
    Entertainment, Inc., became a publicly-held corporation with the
    successful closing of its initial public offering.


                         HARLAN ELLISON
                      Creative Consultant


    As J. Michael Straczynski writes in Foundation of Harlan Ellison and his
    unique role as creative consultant to Babylon 5:  "Harlan's input is
    whatever Harlan chooses....Like the other masters of sf named before,
    the work of Harlan Ellison was a tremendous inspiration to me, and
    having him with me on the show is a constant compass pointing ever
    toward quality and challenging ideas."  (Please see Foundation, page 13,
    which included in this packet.)


    Ellison has been called "one of the great living American short story
    writers" by The Washington Post; and the Los Angeles Times has written,
    "It's long past time for Harlan Ellison to be awarded the title:  20th
    century Lewis Carroll."


    In a career spanning four decades, Ellison has won more awards for the
    62 books he has written or edited, the more than 1700 stories, essays,
    articles and newspaper columns, the two dozen teleplays and a dozen
    motion pictures he has created, than any other living fantasist.


    Among them are 8-1/2 Hugo Awards, three Nebula Awards, two Edgar Allan
    Poe Awards from the Mystery Writers of America, two Georges Melies
    Fantasy Film Awards, and the distinquished Silver Pen Award for
    Journalism by P.E.N. (the international writers' union).  He was also
    presented with the first Living Legend Award by the International Horror
    Critics at their 1995 World Horror Convention.  And he is the only
    author in Hollywood ever to win the Writers' Guild of America Award for
    Most Outstanding Teleplay four times, most recently for "Paladin of the
    Lost Hour" in 1987.


    His latest books include The Essential Ellison (1987; a 35-year
    retrospective of his work), Angry Candy (1988; recipient of the 1989
    World Fantasy Award for Best Short Story Collection, and listed in the
    Encyclopedia for Americana Annual as one of the major works of American
    literature for 1988), Harlan Ellison's Watching (1988; a compilation of
    20 years of film criticism), The Harlan Ellison Hornbook (1990), Harlan
    Ellison's Movie (1990), Dreams With Sharp Teeth (1991; Book-of-the-Month
    Club), Mefisto in Onyx (1993), Mind Fields with Polish artist Jacek
    Yerka (1994), I, Robot: The Illustrated Screenplay (1994; based on Isaac
    Asimov's story-cycle), and "The City on the Edge of Forever" screenplay
    (1995).


    He also provided the voice of the insane god-computer AM on the
    recently-released, bestselling CD-Rom computer game, "I HAVE NO MOUTH,
    AND I MUST SCREAM."  In January 1995, his ongoing, monthly comic book
    from Dark Horse, called Harlan Ellison's Dream Corridor, debuted.


                       CHRISTOPHER FRANKE
                  Music Composer and Performer


    One of the pioneers of electronic music and former member of Tangerine
    Dream, Christopher Franke not only composes the music for each episode
    of Babylon 5, but performs it in "real time" with his Berlin Symphonic
    Film Orchestra, though each is located halfway around the globe from
    each other.


    A truly innovative and prolific musical artist, Franke's recording
    efforts in just the last five years include four solo albums -- "Pacific
    Coast Highway" (1991), "The London Concert" (1992), "Klemania" (1993),
    and "Enchanting Nature" (1995) -- and four soundtrack albums --
    "Universal Soldier" (1992), "New Music for Films, Vol. 1" (1992),
    "Raven" (1994), and "Babylon 5" (1995).  A second "Babylon 5" album is
    scheduled for release later this year.


    Despite the demands of producing new music for each Babylon 5 episode --
    which is highly unusual for a syndicated series -- Franke has
    simultaneously turned out his numerous albums, as well as scoring
    numerous other feature films and television shows.  Among them are the
    new ABC Saturday morning children's science fiction series, "Hypernauts"
    (reuniting him with Doug Netter, John Copeland, and Ron Thornton).


    Born in Berlin, Franke studied classical music and composition at the
    Berlin Conservatory.  At the same time, he was actively involved in rock
    and jazz music with the group Agitation Free.  He cites as early
    influences the composers John Cage and Karl-Heinz Stockhausen and the
    painters Dali, Miro and Kandinsky.


    Franke set up a sound studio in a music school with his teacher, the
    Swiss avant-garde musician and composer, Thomas Kessler -- which became
    a residence for young musicians and groups dedicated to experimental
    music.  The improvisation courses they conducted and the introduction
    they provided to new instruments and techniques resulted in a
    highly-regarded project called The Berlin School of Electronic Music.
    It was there that Franke met Edgar Froese and brought Peter Baumann
    (today the head of the record company, Private Music, USA) into the
    group, thus founding Tangerine Dream.


    Franke was the first musician in Tangerine Dream to make use of the
    synthesizer for developing a new direction in experimental music.  He
    also incorporated the sequencer as an entension of traditional
    percussion instruments, which became a ground breaker in live concerts.


    With Tangerine Dream, Franke released 36 studio, live, and soundtrack
    albums between 1970 and 1988 -- of which seven of the studio albums
    became gold records.  The group also toured all over the world.


    In 1988, Franke left Tangerine Dream to concentrate on his personal life
    and the development of new musical ideas.  In 1990, he moved to Los
    Angeles.  In 1991, he founded the Berlin Symphonic Film Orchestra and
    recorded his first solo album, "Pacific Coast Highway."  Within the next
    twelve months, he had composed the music for the feature films, "Eye of
    the Storm" (starring Dennis Hopper) and "McBain" (starring Christopher
    Walken), and the television movie, "She Woke Up" (with Lindsay Wagner).
    And in 1992, he wrote the music for the worldwide blockbuster,
    "Universal Soldier," starring Jean-Claude Van Damme, as well as the
    CBS-TV series, "Raven," followed by numerous other film and TV projects.


                          RON THORNTON
                    Visual Effects Designer


    Emmy Award-winning special effects artist Ron Thornton is President and
    Co-Founder of Foundation Imaging, a leading computer animation/special
    effects company based in Valencia, California.  He has, for the past
    seventeen years, created numerous trend-setting visual effects for the
    entertainment industry.


    A native of London, England, Thornton began his entertainment career
    working for BBC Television, where he created props and miniatures for
    shows such as the highly popular "Dr. Who," "Blakes 7" and "Tripods."
    In 1984, Thornton emigrated to the United States, and began working for
    David Stipes Productions.  It was under the tutelage of Stipes (now the
    Special Effects Supervisor for Paramount Television's "Star Trek
    Voyager") that Thornton gained valuable experience as an effects
    cameraman on Martha Coolidge's comedy feature film, "Real Genius."


    Thornton went on to create miniatures for several additional movies,
    including "Commando" with Arnold Schwarzenegger; the Mel Brooks' comedy,
    "Space Balls"; "Critters" with Billy Zane and Dee Wallace Stone; and
    "Robot Jox."  Thornton also provided miniatures and did camera work on
    "Amazon Women on the Moon" and "Night of the Creeps."


    In 1987, Thornton was introduced to the Amiga Computer while supervising
    miniatures in Canada for the syndicated children's television program,
    "Captain Power and the Soldiers of the Future."  While working on
    "Captain Power," he began to experiment with ground-breaking 3-D
    computer graphics which would pre-visualize FX shots.


    In 1990, Thornton and Foundation Imaging's Director of Operations and
    Co-Founder, Paul Beigle-Bryant, began discussing the possibility of
    creating a digital effects facility utilizing the latest advances in
    desk-top computer technologies.  The men were friends who had originally
    met in England in 1983, and had worked on several projects together.
    The duo began hatching plans to create and entire special effects
    business.


    Thornton sold all of his camera equipment and motion control systems to
    invest in the computer systems which would be needed for such an
    undertaking.  It was mid-1991 when Thornton was approached by the
    producers of "Captain Power" to bid on miniatures for a sci-fi project
    they were developing, Babylon 5.  At that time, Thornton had been
    working with innovative rock music and multimedia artist Todd Rundgren
    on a short computer-animated film.  The work with Rundgren led Thornton
    to suggest using computers for the effects on Babylon 5.


    Thornton and Beigle-Bryant created a one minute video of proposed visual
    effects for Babylon 5, which would become instrumental in selling the
    show to Warner Bros. television in July 1992.  Upon pick-up of the new
    series, Thornton and Beigle-Bryant formed Foundation Imaging to continue
    creating the visuals for Babylon 5. Since that time, Thornton has served
    as Special Effects Designer on Babylon 5, Paramount's "Viper" and CBS'
    "Skeleton Warriors."


    In 1993, Thornton and Beigle-Bryant won an Emmy Award for "Outstanding
    Achievement in Special Visual Effects" for their work on the pilot of
    Babylon 5.  A year later, they won an "International Monitor" Award for
    their pilot episode of the CBS series, "Viper."  Two very extraordinary
    accomplishments for a visual effects company using desk-top computers.


    In 1994, Thornton created the new ABC Saturday morning children's
    series, "Hypernauts," for which he is serving as executive producer with
    Doug Netter.  John Copeland is the supervising producer.  The innovative
    futuristic story, which debuted in primetime on March 2, 1996, before
    beginning its regular Saturday morning run on March 2, also features
    Thornton's Emmy Award-winning CGI special visual effects.


                JOHN VULICH, OPTIC NERVE STUDIOS
                    Special Make-up Effects


    The recipient of a 1993 Emmy Award for "Outstanding Individual
    Achievement in Make-Up for a Series" (for the episode, "Parliament of
    Dreams"), John Vulich's Optic Nerve Studios has emerged as one of the
    up-and-coming effects houses in the film and television industry.


    Based in Los Angeles, Optic Nerve houses all the necessary machinery
    required to mill, lathe, weld, mold, and vacu-form all the elements
    needed to create a wide variety of special effects.  As one of the first
    effects companies to utilize New Tek's Video Toaster in the design
    process, it is also capable of altering the image of a performer in a
    variety of ways, creating realistic color printouts, which better help
    to illustrate proposed designs.


    Just since 1990, the studio has 17 feature films, including "Batman
    Returns" and "Mighty Morphin Power Rangers."  Besides Babylon 5, Optic
    Nerve is presently working on "Hypernauts" (created by Ron Thornton, who
    also serves as the executive producer with Douglas Netter.  John
    Copeland is the supervising producer.)  And they contributed to the TV
    shows, "MADONNA: Bedtime Stories" and "MICHAEL JACKSON: Scream," among
    others.


                        ANN BRUICE ALING
                        Costume Designer


    The recipient of two Los Angeles Drama Critics Circle Awards (in 1991
    for "You Can't Take It With You" and in 1992 for "Philadelphia Story"),
    Ann Bruice Aling holds a MFA in costume design from the California
    Institute of the Arts and a MA in theatre from the University of
    California, Santa Barbara.


    Beginning her career in regional theatre, on numerous productions for
    South Coast Repertory, she has since designed for the Mark Taper Forum
    and the Los Angeles Theatre Center, as well as the Pasadena Playhouse,
    New Mexico Repertory, Philadelphia Theatre Company, Caesar's Tahoe,
    Grove Shakespeare Festival, and PCPA Theatrefest.


    She also served as the assistant designer on the hit motion picture,
    "Honey, I Shrunk the Kids," and has worked such other television
    projects as the telefilm, "Siringo" (for Doug Netter and John Copeland),
    and the ABC Afterschool Special, "Perfect Date."


                         JOHN IAVOVELLI
                      Production Designer


    As well as Babylon 5, John Iavovelli has served as the production
    designer on on the primetime documentary series, "The Wild West," and
    the TV movie, "Siringo," for producers Doug Netter and John Copeland, as
    well as the PBS series, "Future Quest" (starring Jeff Goldblum), and the
    motion picture, "Ruby in Paradise."


    As an art director, he has worked on such productions as the motion
    picture, "Honey, I Shrunk the Kids!," and the TV series, "The Cosby
    Show" and "A Different World."


    Iacovelli also continues to serve as the Head of Design at the
    University of California - Riverside and to work in theater.  His
    extensive stage credits include "Twilight of the Golds" on Broadway and
    for The Kennedy Center and The Pasadena Playhouse, as well as over a
    hundred productions for such leading regional companies as The South
    Coast Repertory, The Mark Taper Forum, The Berkshire Theatre Festival,
    The Philadelphia Theatre Company, The Dallas Theater Center, San Diego's
    Old Globe, and The Oregon Shakespeare Festival.  Iacovelli has an MFA
    degree in Design and Art Direction from NYU.


                             * * *