
                         THE BABYLON 5 PHENOMENON


    *  Babylon 5 ranks #6 in the delivery of Men 18-49 and Men 25-54 out of
       19 action hour programs*, and #1 in the delivery of Men 18-49 and
       Men 25-54 VPVHs among all action hour dramas**.  (Sources: *NSS
       SEASON-TO-DATE 9/4/95-3/17/96; **NSS. 9/25/95-2/11/96)


    *  In Viewers for Quality Television's (VQT) monthly surveys, Babylon 5
       has regularly ranked high -- indeed, finishing #8 recently in a
       four-way tie, well ahead of every other science fiction show except
       "The X-Files."


    *  The 1995 3rd Annual Sci-Fi Fantasy TV's Internet survey of nine
       newsgroups ranked Babylon 5 #1 among favorite shows -- followed by
       "The X-Files" at #2 and "Star Trek: The Next Generation" at #3.


    *  A zealous fan recently spent considerable time on the Net tracking
       the number of times that Babylon 5 references could be found on the
       Web's some 21 million pages.  The result?  20,000 pages that
       included Babylon 5, compared to 90,000 pages for the entire "Star
       Trek" legacy, 10,000 pages for "Star Trek: Deep Space 9," and 10,000
       pages for "Hercules."  Pretty good for a show that had to create its
       own tradition!


                      Fans Of All Stripes:


    *  A representative of Army Broadcasting told Babylon 5's producers that
       the episode, "Eyes," was reviewed in the Army Ops. Center at the
       Pentagon for insight into military procedure and internal affairs.
       She also said that the Secret Service ran abstract psychological
       profiles on the characters in this episode, just as they do for
       criminals and terrorists, to serve as a research model.


    *  Producer John Copeland says he's been informed that the Defense
       Department refers to Babylon 5 as "Force Multiplier" for its
       morale-boosting effect on the troops -- particularly those units
       stationed in remote areas like Saudi Arabia and Kuwait.


    *  Also according to information conveyed to the producers, the Naval
       Intelligence Department constructed a test model for how computer
       networks are susceptible to compromise, and named each computer in
       the study after a Babylon 5 character.  "And guess which one got
       compromised first," Copeland reports with amusement. "Londo."


    *  The crew of the remote McMurdo military outpost in Antarctica have
       friends tape the show back in the States and ship it up in their
       twice-yearly supplies drop. Babylon 5 has also been adopted by Army
       Apache and Cobra units stationed at Fort Bragg and the crews of
       several aircraft carriers, including the U.S.S. Independence. As
       well, the producers have heard from a convent of nuns, college
       students, senior citizens, House Sciences Committee members,
       religious leaders, and "lots of ordinary folk.  It's an incredibly
       diverse audience," says creator and executive producer J. Michael
       Straczynski.  "They all seem to respond to the same thing, which is
       to see an honest-to-God saga on television."


                       A Global Following


    *  Babylon 5 is carried by networks in over 20 countries, including the
       U.K., Europe, Australia, New Zealand, Greece, Italy, Israel, Jordan,
       Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Phillipines, Portugal, Puerto Rico, and
       such unlikely places as Trinidad, Tobago, and Malaysia.
       "Internationally, we are a big success story," says executive
       producer Douglas Netter, noting that the show is in the Top Ten
       programs in England, where it is aired by Channel 4.


                      Fans Who Really Care


    *  When a television station in Greece declared bankruptcy last year and
       shut down literally in the middle of airing a Babylon 5 episode,
       hundreds of protestors with placards marched in front of the station
       the next day -- demanding that it return to the airwaves just long
       enough to finish showing the aborted episode.  While they were not
       successful, the publicity did result in their getting another
       station to pick up the series.


    *  In Canada's British Columbia, "a small, but vocal core of fans banded
       together on the Internet (the Vancouver Babylon 5 UseNet group is
       one of the most active TV groups on the local net) and lobbied CHEK
       to pick the show up for the third season," reported Vancouver Sun
       television writer Alex Strachan in December 1995, adding that "the
       Victoria station saw the opportunity to kill two birds with one
       stone: Resurrect Babylon 5, mollify the show's UseNet junkies, and
       fill a hole on Thursday nights."


    *  San Jose Mercury News television writer Mike Antonucci also reported
       in 1995 that the viewers in his area were not happy about the final
       episodes of season two airing in the U.K. months before the U.S.
       "Not only did information about the episodes start to percolate on
       the Internet, but U.S. addicts wanted tapes (and right away, thank
       you).  One Bay Area die-hard tells me that fans have gathered for
       home showings of said tapes, creating little festivals at which
       cultists grumbled about their second-nation status."


    *  Among the scores of fan clubs around the world that have sprouted up
       during the last four years has been the UK Fan Club, which has shown
       its appreciation for the series by mounting the first-ever Babylon 5
       convention in September 1995, with another even-larger event (Babcom
       '96) planned for June 1996, to be attended by most of the show's
       stars.


    *  Numerous Babylon 5 fan clubs have mounted their own Internet Web
       pages and created e-mail newsletters to keep local members informed
       of show developments -- and to mount crusades for better time
       periods an/or renewals when necessary.


                A Major Presence on the Internet


    *  Babylon 5 is one of the most celebrated television shows on the
       Internet today -- with 265 fan-mounted Web sites, its own official
       home page, and daily online discussions on CompuServe, GEnie, Bix,
       Fidonet, and USENET.  The show has become so popular on BBSes, in
       fact, USENET's rec.arts.sf.tv.babylon5 area recorded over 100,000
       messages in 1995 alone.  "We went from 0 to becoming the 18th
       biggest group on the entire Internet within a period of a couple of
       months," says Straczynski.


    *  A dedicated Internet navigator since 1984 (when he became the first
       television writer on CompuServe), Straczynski is in fact the only
       television executive who interacts regularly with fans, consistently
       putting in three to four hours a day -- seven days a week -- reading
       the some 500 Babylon 5-related daily postings put up by fans.  Why?
       "Because on the nets, you get questions you never dreamed of, which
       helps me strengthen my characters and the world of the show," says
       Straczynski -- who has written a phenomenal 49 of the show's 66
       total episodes to date (including the entire third season).  "It's
       been an interesting experiment in truly interactive TV. A viewer can
       watch our show and 10 minutes later be online with the person who
       wrote it, created it, and produced it.  And do the same thing next
       week, and the week thereafter.  I think it's helped to demystify TV,
       which was one of my goals."


    *  "J. Michael Straczynski is changing not only the way people look at
       television, but far, far, far more importantly, the way TV looks at
       people.  In fact, he seems to be boldly going where no producer has
       gone before -- to the fans, via the Internet," reported Brad Bailey
       in Dallas' Arts & Entertainment Weekly in March 1995. Bailey also
       related how he had "sent up a public post to the Netheads at large,
       timidly offering the fact that I was a writer friendly to the show
       who was looking into the Babylon 5 phenom as a topic for a possible
       article. "In fact, the sheer volume of viewer response from Netheads
       who are also Bab5heads was nothing less than amazing, in and of
       itself: some 250,000 bytes, roughly 50,000 words...of intelligent,
       articulate, well-thought-out praise for the show and its creator. "I
       had also told those folks that I would be willing to do them the
       hugely condescending favor of asking any questions that they might
       want to forward along to Big Writer Me, just on the off chance that,
       waving my press card and touting my Representative of the People
       status, I would be able to rat-terrier Straczynski's people into
       maybe getting to do at least a short interview.  As regards this
       Once-in-a-Lifetime Offer, I got numerous responses, but none like I
       expected. "As David Bilek put it:  'First off, in regards to getting
       'some sort of access' to the executive producer, Joe Straczynski,
       you don't need to go to all that trouble.  He reads and responds
       regularly to the Babylon 5 newsgroup, and the Babylon 5 category on
       GEnie, home of the Grid Epsilon Irregulars.  So, if you have
       questions for the guy, just send them to him.'" Bailey did, and got
       back 15,000 bytes (or 3,000 words) from JMS in response to his
       questions.


                An Expanding Universe of B5 Merchandise


       Following are only a few of the exciting collectibles currently
       available.  Internet users:  The Lurker's Guide to Babylon 5:
       Resources: Products maintains an updated list of current and upcoming
       items (http://www.hyperion.com/lurker.html).


    *  The Babylon 5 Original Soundtrack


        Composer Christopher Franke, one of the pioneers of electronic music
        and a former member of Tangerine Dream, has reorchestrated his
        original, powerful scores and primary themes for B5 into four
        uninterrupted suites, merging the worlds of classical and electronic
        music.  Audio clips available for downloading from Sonic Images
        Internet site: http://sonicimages.com.


        Available in compact disc from major retail outlets, Internet virtual
        stores, or directly from Sonic Images (213-650-4400).


    *  The Babylon 5 Limited Edition CD-ROM Entertainment Utility


        Contains a hi-tech screen saver -- featuring actual video clips from
        the series -- and over 100 colorful images, 50 AudioClipsTM, 30
        Wallpaper Images, Q SoundTM enhanced.  (For Windows 3.1 or later; a
        Macintosh version soon to be released.)


        Available from SoundSource Interactive (800-877-4778).


    *  Babylon 5 Character Costumes and Masks


        Four costumes and two masks currently available from Uncomyn Gifts
        (800-875-6926 or 360-866-6674).


    *  Babylon 5 Micro Machines


        Two new 3-pack collections -- featuring 6 new space vehicles -- coming
        April 1996, in addition to the four continuing collections.


        Available at all major toy retailers.


                            * * *