
                      WHAT THE CRITICS ARE SAYING...


    "'Babylon 5' portrays, with alarming realism and spectacular detail, a
    myriad of space-based cultures and their struggles to achieve common
    ground and mutual understanding.  Paralleling many of the nuances of
    today's human relations, 'Babylon 5' offers a futuristic, yet stunningly
    contemporary view of political and social intermingling on a cosmic
    level.  It is a 23rd century 'whodunit,' complete with spellbinding
    intrigue played out before a backdrop of interplanetary conspiracies and
    individual betrayals.
    "'Babylon 5' delivers a visual masterpiece and creates to the finest
    points life in the far reaches of time and space, made real with
    wondrous costumes, detailed makeup, prosthetics, industry-leading
    computer-generated graphics and astounding special effects....
    "'Babylon 5,' a unique combination of state-of-the-art technology with
    all-out action and underlying passion, is home to both science fiction
    and dramatic storytelling."
              -- Delise Langford, The Huntsville Times


                               *


    "'Star Trek: Deep Space Nine' fans may take offense but 'Babylon 5' is
    the most interesting place to visit out of this world.  'Babylon 5' wins
    the weekly war of battling space stations with good stories, better
    characters and intense conflict.
    "'Babylon 5' is peopled by an inscrutable blend of aliens and humans,
    each with a hidden agenda.  They interact in creator J. Michael
    Straczynski's complex five-year master plan, enabling writers to enrich
    this extraterrestrial tapestry.
    "'Babylon 5' is also much darker than any other sci-fi drama.  In one
    episode, a race of aliens died of a '100-percent contagious, 100-percent
    fatal' plague before a cure could be discovered.  Rest assured that, in
    the 'Star Trek' universe, an antidote would have been found in time to
    save everyone.
    "Writers refuse to succumb to the need to include every character in
    every episode, conveying the impression there's a lot more going on
    among the 250,000 inhabitants of 'Babylon 5' than viewers know.  That's
    enough to keep this veteran science-fiction fan riveted to the couch.
    "WATCH IT?  A visually stunning experience.
    "TAPE IT? It has all the makings of a classic."


              -- Charles Aukerman, Sun Banner Pride


                               *


    "Forget 'Star Trek.'  The best space opera on television is a show
    you've probably never heard of: 'Babylon 5,' an energetic, nasty and
    rousingly entertaining serial that combines grittiness with an almost
    childlike sense of wonder....
    "'Babylon 5' resembles Isaac Asimov's 'Foundation' series in sheer
    scale, and some of the concepts -- underground railroads for victims of
    persecution through mind-control, independence movements for off-world
    colonies, prejudice among alien races -- are explored with unique
    freshness and perspective, without stooping to the preachiness and
    sanctimoniousness evident in so many 'Deep Space Nine' and "Voyager'
    scripts.
    "'Babylon 5' has struggled to find a wide audience, but it has lasted
    three seasons.  There may be intelligent life out there after all."


              -- Alex Strachan, Vancouver Sun


                               *


    "Babylon 5 has set the sci-fi TV world on end with the quality of its
    writing, method of production and revolutionary special
    effects........[The] stories are gripping....If you haven't checked ou
    Babylon 5 you owe it to yourself to do so.  This is, without doubt, the
    best science fiction series ever produced.  Give it the next six weeks.
    You'll be hooked."


              -- Tom Poston, Break Magazine


                               *


    "Like any space opera worth its salt, the show comes with a full
    complement of weird-looking creatures and dazzling special effects.  The
    difference is that 'Babylon 5' does them better than anybody else -- the
    show won a pair of Emmys for makeup and visual effects in its very first
    season....What really sets the show apart is its ambitious approach to
    storytelling."


              -- Mark Nollinger, TV Guide


                               *


    "The station houses an array of aliens the equal of 'Star Wars'
    cantina."


              -- Brian Donlon, USA Today


                               *


    "[Babylon 5's] computer-generated space scenes are spectacular and the
    plot is reminiscent of the golden age of space sagas.  The show is the
    sci-fi equivalent of progressive rock...."


              -- Stephen Lynch, Orange County Register


                               *


    "This is one space station you're likely to want to visit frequently."


              -- Barry Garron, Kansas City Star


                               *


    "'Babylon 5' just keeps getting better and better.  I highly recommend
    everyone watch it."


              -- Stephen P. Signorelli, Tri-Town News


                             * * *