
                 VISITING BABYLON 5 IN CYBERSPACE


              A Resource Guide to B5 on the Internet


     Babylon 5 is the only television show in which viewers can watch an
episode, then get on the Internet, post their questions or thoughts, "and be
reasonably sure your voice will be heard," says creator and executive
producer J. Michael Straczynski (or JMS online) -- who spends several hours
a day responding to many of the several hundred online messages he receives
daily.


     Whether you're a new viewer or show regular, all you need is access to
the Internet, where a universe of interesting facts and fascinating trivia
are instantly available from Babylon 5's online galaxy of 265 fan-mounted
Web sites, an official home page, and numerous newsgroups (where JMS "lurks"
and answers viewer queries).


     So if you want to be the Babylon 5 authority in your office or
neighborhood...enter these "jumpgates" to be transported into a hyperspace
of insider knowledge!


€  The fastest way to get there...


     Type "Babylon 5" into your Yahoo!, Excite, or Infoseek search engine.
     A long list of B5 web pages will pop up immediately, allowing you to
     surf hundreds of sites through direct links.


€  Or go directly to these selected sites...


     €  The Official "Babylon 5" Web Site (two locations)


          America Online:  Choose "Entertainment" in the main menu;
                    then "Babylon 5" in "ThE List."


          World Wide Web:  http://www.pathfinder.com/babylon5


     €  The Lurker's Guide to Babylon 5:


          http://www.hyperion.com/lurker.html


     €  Composer Christopher Franke's Sonic Images:


          http://www.sonicimages.com


     €  The Babylon 5 Store:


          http:www.hyperion.com/lurk/resources/products.html


€  To read or post messages to JMS or other B5 viewers...


     (For legal reasons, please do not post story ideas on any of the
     newsgroups/BBCs.)


     €  Official "Babylon 5" Web Site:  Go to Message Center


     €  GEnie:  Go to Science Fiction RoundTable, Category 18 (topics
                     about the series in general) and Category 19 (topics
                about specific episodes)


     €  CompuServe:  Go to SFMediaOne


€  Other B5 BBCs...


     €  Usenet:  Go to rec.arts.sf.tv.babylon5 or alt.tv.babylon-5


                      * * * 