
                           INTRODUCTION


It's not often that a individual television series can take credit for
having made a profound impact on both the way stories are told and and the
way shows are produced in the medium today.  Especially one that is
syndicated and science fiction as well.


Babylon 5 -- created by J. Michael Straczynski (the only individual selected
by Newsweek from the ranks of the entertainment industry to appear on its
"50 for the Future" list of the "most influential thinkers-innovators who
will shape our lives as we move into the 21st century") -- falls within that
category.


Within these pages you will read about how this unique series -- presently
in its third season of syndication through Warner Bros. Domestic Television
Distribution -- has pioneered many historic firsts in American television,
including as...


    * The first American television series presented as an epic saga -- with a
      beginning, middle, and end in the tradition of a great literary novel.


    * The first series to revolutionize the way state-of-the-art special
      visual effects are produced on television through the use of inexpensive
      desktop computers and off-the-shelf software.


    * The first science fiction series in which all of the technology
      incorporated in the story -- other than its unique "jumpgates" -- are
      based on real science.


    * The first time one individual has written a full 22-episode season for
      for a one-hour dramatic series.


    * The first time that the Virtual Studio concept has been used to link key
      members of the production team around the world via the Internet and
      other means for a television series.


Certainly, few syndicated series have been as honored in such a short period
of time.  To date, Babylon 5 has received...


    * Two Emmy Awards (for Special Visual Effects in 1993 and Makeup in 1994)


    * Three Emmy nominations (for Cinematography, Makeup, and Hairstyling, all
      in 1995)


    * The 1994 Space Frontier Foundation Award for "Best Vision of the Future"
      from the National Association of Space Scientists, Astronauts and
      Engineers


    * The 1994 Jewish Televimage Award


    * A Hugo Award nomination from the World Science Fiction Association


    * Five English Media Cult TV Awards from England (including for "Best New
      Series" in 1994)


    * A Sci-Fi Universe 1995 Reader's Choice Award ("Best Actor in a TV
      Series") for star Bruce Boxleitner (shared with David Duchovny of "The
      X-Files")


                           *


Babylon 5 stars Bruce Boxleitner, Claudia Christian, Jerry Doyle, and
Mira Furlan.  Richard Biggs, Bill Mumy, Jason Carter, Stephen Furst,
and Jeff Conaway also star, with Peter Jurasik as "Londo" and Andreas
Katsulas as "G-Kar."


Produced by Babylonian Productions, Inc., Babylon 5 is distributed by
Warner Bros. Domestic Television Distribution.  Douglas Netter and
J. Michael Straczynski are the executive producers, and John Copeland
is the producer. Harlan Ellison serves as a creative consultant. 