The sound and video clips in this directory are from Warner Bros.' online
Babylon 5 promotion of May 1995.  All of them were specially created for
promotional purposes.

Please don't upload sound or video clips unless they're sanctioned by
Warner Bros.  We'll just delete them.

VIDEO

Video beeps

backup.avi	Garibaldi reminds you to back up your hard disk.
dream.avi	Delenn bids you goodbye.
favorite.avi	Garibaldi reveals his favorite thing in the universe.
minbari.avi	Delenn asks you to reset your comm software.
password.avi	Lennier asks for your password.
promo1mv.avi	(didn't play back on my AVI player)
security.avi	Garibaldi warns you about security.
software.avi	Delenn waxes philosophical.
virus.avi	Sheridan scans for viruses.

Scenes (with different soundtracks)

2away.avi	Minbari cruisers head to B5 station, from "Points of Departure"
2explos.avi	Shadows attack Narn outpost, from "The Coming of Shadows"
2vortex.avi	Streib ship opens a jump point, from "All Alone in the Night"
battle4.avi	Centauri vs. Narn space battle, from "Acts of Sacrifice"
bigship.avi	Narn cruiser is destroyed, from "Acts of Sacrifice"
invortex.avi	Streib ship jumps, from "All Alone in the Night"
laser.avi	Babylon 5's communication laser, from "Points of Departure"
planetb2.avi	Streib ship approaches homeworld, from "All Alone in the Night"
rotate.avi	Flyby of the station
shipcut.avi	Minbari cruiser is sliced, from "Points of Departure"
vortex.avi	Jump gate activates
xfight.avi	Starfury squadron in formation

b5quick.mov	QuickTime movie with effects "The Gathering."
b5quick.bin	Same movie, in MacBinary format.


SOUND

error.wav	Sheridan: "You've just committed a fatal error.  There's
		nothing we can do for you.  Dismissed."
greeting.wav	Sheridan: "This is Captain John Sheridan.  Greetings from
		Babylon 5."
redalert.wav	Ivanova: "Red alert, all quarters.  There appear to be online
		visitors."
see_soon.wav	Ivanova: "This is Commander Susan Ivanova of Babylon 5.  Come
		back and see us soon."
virus.wav	Sheridan: "Computer, activate virus defense systems.  Prepare
		to download."
