This file contains messages posted by J. Michael Straczynski on GEnie
from May 16 - May 30th.  Postings are copyright 1994 by J. Michael Straczynski
with compilation copyright by GEnie.

NOTE: This file is incomplete.  I am attempting to gather the rest of the
posts from this time frame.         leew

 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 1
Message 517       Wed May 18, 1994
STRACZYNSKI [Joe]            at 00:58 EDT

     At this juncture, you probably know as much or more about the CD Rom
release as I do.

                                                           jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 1
Message 519       Wed May 18, 1994
STRACZYNSKI [Joe]            at 03:44 EDT

     "What are you going to tease us with now?"

     Nothing, I don't tease.

     Now if you'll excuse me, I have to go print up the first few acts of the
season two debut script, "Chrysalis, Part Two," which airs in... November.

                                                                jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 1
Message 532       Thu May 19, 1994
STRACZYNSKI [Joe]            at 00:55 EDT

     If you mean the planet beside B5, it's Epsilon 3.

                                                             jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 1
Message 538       Thu May 19, 1994
STRACZYNSKI [Joe]            at 03:53 EDT

     I'll be happy to answer the question as soon as you can define for me
specifically what you mean when you say "soap opera."  Because it seems like
no two people mean it the same way.  What you seem to be referring to in your
message is characterization.  Maybe you couldn't care less about G'Kar's
religious ceremony, but it shows a very different side of G'Kar than we've
seen before.  That's important.

     I've said it elsewhere, but I'll say it here: I've never bought into the
strict definitions of what SF is.  If it happens in the future, on a space
station, involving starships, it's SF.  And I'd also point out that the
solution to G'Kar's and Londo's problem is a scientific solution using
lightspeed at its core.

     Also, I've always considered B5 speculative fiction, which isn't as
narrow as hard-core/technobabble science fiction (or, more properly, some
aspects of that area, since there has been a goodly amount of hard SF that
I've enjoyed and continue to enjoy).  To me, SF (either way) isn't about the
hardware, isn't about reversing the polarity on the tachyon emitter to reflux
the framitz.  It's looking to the future, and positing social and political
and religious questions.  How will society change by the year 2258?  How will
the government work?  How will we handle the development of telepaths?  How
will we get along with other life forms?   What will commerce be like?  That
is an *absolutely* valid definition of SF that has been showcased in some of
the best stories written in the SF genre.  I'd point you to "A Canticle for
Liebowitz" as just one example of one of the most famous books in SF, without
a *lick* of hardware/tech in it.

     Some SF fans don't like emotion in their stories.  They don't like
passion or people yelling or extremes.  They like their SF quiet and
reasonable and comfortable.  I don't want B5 to be a comfortable show.  I
don't want it to be spoken in a calm, reasonable voice.  I'm not in my office
now, but I have several quotes on my walls there (I note this because I can't
put author with quote from memory)..."Be uncomfortable.  Be sand, not oil, in
the machinery of the world."  "The point of no return, that is the point that
must be reached."

     B5 is a show that, at its best, is written at a dead run, that takes us
right to the edge.  That simply may not be your cup of tea.

     Which, I suspect, is earl grey.  Hot.

                                                               jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 1
Message 558       Fri May 20, 1994
STRACZYNSKI [Joe]            at 01:38 EDT

     One thing that got somewhat short shrift this season were the personal
stories of the humans.  We learn a *lot* more about the Minbari, for instance,
than we really learn about Garibaldi, for instance.  So we're going to
increase that side of things a bit, so people can get to know our characters a
little better.  It's just doing a bit more for the humans what we did for the
aliens.  And it's really time for that; we now have a pretty good idea who the
alien players are by now...time to bolster the other side a bit.

                                                                  jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 1
Message 560       Fri May 20, 1994
STRACZYNSKI [Joe]            at 02:57 EDT

 I have some news that must be imparted.  I think that the best way
 to convey that news is to start at the end of the story, make my
 way to the middle, and end at the beginning.

 So: the end of the story.

 Everything is okay.  Nothing major really changes.  All is well.

 Now the middle of the story.

 I've been asked, several times, what happens if something *happens*
 to me, or one of the cast members, during the five year arc, since
 this is a fully-worked-out novel.  Generally, I blow off the question
 with humor.  But the truth is, obviously, I've taken every possible
 step to make sure that no one is disappointed.  In my case, I've
 made sure the story is available somewhere.

 The trouble, of course, is that unlike writing a novel, where the
 characters exist only on a sheet of paper, actors and writers are
 some discussion on the best of days).  They can get sick, they can
 get into contract disputes, they can be hit by meteors, they can
 decide to buy a house in Cambridge and raise hedgehogs under an
 assumed name.  There are, in short, *always* unpredictables in any
 such endeavor.

 Consequently, in drafting the story for Babylon 5, I made sure to
 compensate for any possible changes.  For lack of a better term,
 there is a "trap door" built into the storyline for every character.
 Obviously, you don't want to lose anyone, but in *every* case any
 such change momentarily shifts the story about ten degrees to one
 side for a little bit, and then you're back on track again.

 Case in point: Dr. Benjamin Kyle and Lyta Alexander.  Here are the
 only two humans who have seen or scanned a Vorlon.  This is Very
 Important to the storyline.  Alas, as later events unfolded, things
 did not work out, and the characters were dropped...but their story
 remained important, in that it was established that they were soon
 afterward recalled to Earth under mysterious circumstances (as noted
 in "War Prayer"), which actually *helps* the storyline in many ways.

 This is not meant to sound callous.  As a writer, and as a producer,
 it's my job to tell the story, to be responsible, and to make sure
 every possible contingency is covered.  To do anything less would be
 simply irresponsible.

 Now to the beginning of the story.

 Over the last few weeks, we've been re-activating our cast, making
 the deals for the coming season.  One aspect of this has been a
 series of conversations with Michael O'Hare.  Having produced one
 full season, and having learned a lot, and having fine-tuned the
 "saga" along the way, it was our goal to expand the show, bring in
 some new characters, and take the show in some new directions, which
 will prove quite interesting, I think.  (One sidelight to all this:
 now that we've established the series, we'll be able to spend a bit
 more time on personal stories, to let our audience learn more about
 the characters, particularly the humans, who kinda got short shrift
 this season.)

 There is also the question, from an actor's point of view, about
 other opportunities, any possible concern about typecasting, the
 limitations of a continuing role (and the role of the commander
 does have some definite "walls," giving more freedom in many ways
 to other characters).  Now is the point where one needs to take
 a breath and assess one's future, because the deeper we get into
 the story, the more problematic it is to change things (though,
 again, it's do-able, as noted above).

 As a result of these discussions, it has been agreed that we will
 have a separation, in the role of the commander.  Let me emphasize
 this very clearly, so there is no chance of miscommunication: this
 is a mutual, amicable, and friendly separation.  This isn't a Tasha
 Yar situation.  Moreover, we will be handling this in such a way
 that, down the road, Sinclair could potentially return to the story.

 The character of Sinclair will achieve an important destiny, and the
 mystery of the Battle of the Line will be explained, both in the
 first episode of the new season.  His story will still track.  And
 the series will still track precisely as planned.  I take pains to
 mention this because both Michael and I want it clear that we both
 believe in the show, and want this in no way to interfere with the
 series.  He has asked me to convey for him his encouragement, his
 best wishes, and to emphasize that this is, again, an amicable and
 friendly separation.

 He has said that he is happy to continue to do the conventions, to
 promote the show, because he believes in it, and because he is an
 important part of this season's success.  We can think of no
 finer ambassador for Babylon 5 at conventions than Michael O'Hare.
 He is a dynamite speaker, he cares about the fans of the show, and
 his compassion shows.  We think he's a nifty guy.

 On our part, we wish Michael only the very best.  We know that
 he is very much in demand, and look forward to seeing him in other
 projects over the next year.  This will also allow us to pursue some
 new directions avenues for the show that will help to expedite the
 overall story.  Sinclair disappearing for an indeterminate period
 after the events of "Chrysalis" will allow us to tighten the screws
 of the story, and heighten the tension of things going on in the
 storyline.

 If I can speak personally for a moment...those of you reading
 this on-line know that I've always talked straight with you.  If
 I thought this in *any* way would interfere with the story, you'd
 hear about it from me loud and clear.  When problems have arisen in
 the past, I've always spoken about them quite bluntly here (much
 to the chagrin of some people).  This is okay.  We're all still
 very much friends.  I speak frequently to Michael, and consider
 him a friend, just as he considers me a friend.  This was a hard
 decision, but we both knew that it was the right decision, for
 very different reasons.  We both kinda came to the same place
 at the same time from different directions.  We've got to do
 what's right for the show, and for each other, and in many ways,
 this does just that.

 So both we on the show, and Michael are served by this mutual and
 amicable separation.  We will go our separate ways for now, with
 the possibility of meeting Sinclair again down the road a piece,
 as Gandalf disappeared for a time into Mordor, only to return when
 needed most.  (We will also be keeping the character of Sinclair
 alive in the comic, and some of the planned novels, to keep that
 option available to us.)

 Once again, let me emphasize that the story continues on the path
 that has been set for it, everything you learn this season sill
 obtains, the show remains solid, with all of the other cast members
 coming back for a new season, and that the saga of Babylon 5 will
 continue to reveal itself exactly as planned.  And I hope you will
 continue to stay with us for that journey.

                                    Sincerely,
                                    Joe Straczynski
                                    Creator/Executive Producer
                                    BABYLON 5

 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 1
Message 561       Fri May 20, 1994
STRACZYNSKI [Joe]            at 03:17 EDT

     BTW, could some friendly soul please repost the preceding message to
Internet?  I've tried to do it from here, and can't get the darned interface
to work.  Many thanks.

                                                                 jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 1
Message 565       Fri May 20, 1994
STRACZYNSKI [Joe]            at 04:10 EDT

     The arc remains untouched.  For starters, the arc as written was designed
to emphasize the aliens and the Battle of the Line in season one; build the
universe and set the pieces in motion.  Year two brings the humans into play
in the universe that season one created.  There's a reason Morden didn't go to
the Earth Alliance.

     Let me be clear on this: *no* arc-related stories will be sacrificed, at
all.  We're talking mainly in terms of B stories, not A stories.  Most of our
season 1 B stories concentrated on the alien ambassadors; Ivanova really gets
only two strong B stories, and some smaller ones; Delenn gets something like
six.  It's just a question of finding the balance.

                                                                 jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 1
Message 574       Fri May 20, 1994
STRACZYNSKI [Joe]            at 15:29 EDT

     Thanks to all.  I'll convey what I can of this to Michael when I next
speak to him.

     Wayne...if your friends feel that way, then they must not like any show
ever produced in the history of television, because *all* series get five year
options on their cast.  That's considered pro forma.

     What they, and to some extent you, fail to understand is that there is a
difference between a *contract* for five years, and an *option* for five
years.  The former is a guarantee; the latter is at the discretion of the
producers, though in some cases, as we've just seen, an accommodation  can be
reached.  An option means that the producer has the right, but not the
obligation, to pick up an actor for another season.  There's plenty of room
for random events.

     Other than that, you can tell your pessimistic, insulting friends to get
a life.  And I mean that in the best possible sense of the word.  I see no
reason why I have to justify my show to them.  It is what it is.  If they like
it, fine, if not, still fine.  If they don't like it, tell 'em to stop
watching.  Nothing make me crazier than what I've seen on the Trek forums for
all these years, of people who *hate* the show, but still watch every single
episode just so they can go online and grump about it.

                                                                    jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 1
Message 579       Fri May 20, 1994
STRACZYNSKI [Joe]            at 17:30 EDT

     I note this here only because it came up on CIS, and I'd kinda like to
nip this in the bud.  Please don't take out any part of this on Michael.  If
you're going to be upset with anyone, be upset with me, since in the final
analysis, it's Doug and I who have to implement any decision, even when
mutually made.

     What happened at the beginning of the process is that we looked at the
coming season, and said (as I've noted on another system), that in the second
year, we can do X and Y, both of which are very cool.  But what if we did
something unexpected?  What if we took a chance, and tried a slightly
different direction, and set Sinclair aside for a while?  If we did that, we
could still do X and Y...and we could *also* do Z...and Z is very, VERY
interesting.  It opened up some very dramatic possibilities, allowing us to
expand the series and heighten the tension level.

     We talked to Michael, and he had some thoughts on this as well.  The
result was, as stated, a *mutual* decision.

     People here know how much B5 means to me.  I would never do anything, or
allow anyone else to do anything, to harm it.  This is my baby.  And this is
being done not because we will have to overcome this now somehow, but because
in the final analysis we think this will help the show, and give Michael some
flexibility as a side-effect.  I won't ask anyone to trust me, because in
Hollywood, "trust me" is a euphemism at best.  But this will all work out.

     In any event, though, if anyone's going to be upset in any way by this,
please direct it toward me, not toward Michael.  Fundamentally, the
responsibiliy rests on my shoulders, and Doug's.  But since Doug's not here,
I'll take it.

                                                                 jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 1
Message 594       Fri May 20, 1994
STRACZYNSKI [Joe]            at 22:22 EDT

     Obviously I can't say much about season two plans at this time, since
doing so would destroy the intent of doing some things folks may not expect.
All I can say is that the deeper we got into the series, and the more I *saw*
the dynamics of the characters, the more I kept looking back and forth, from
the Minbari to Sinclair, Sinclair to Minbari, and thinking...hmmm...y'know
what'd be *real* neat...?

     Which is all I can say on that for now...except to add that in any novel,
there's always some surprises that the author didn't plan for, and the key is
to be open to that.

                                                    jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 1
Message 607       Sat May 21, 1994
STRACZYNSKI [Joe]            at 00:51 EDT

     Delenn staying while Sinclair goes is part of WHY Sinclair goes and
Delenn stays.  It's absolutely part and parcel.

                                                             jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 1
Message 610       Sat May 21, 1994
STRACZYNSKI [Joe]            at 01:27 EDT

     Linda, you have not been suckered.  Whether or not you believe this, is
something I can't help.  The story has not been sacrificed.  I would not be
sitting here as calmly as I am if that were true.  I understand that you are
upset.  But if you were caught up in the character, it's because the story
*worked*.  You saw that there is a bigger story here, you saw the bits and
pieces coming together.  So there *is* a story, and that story will continue.
All I can ask is that you see what we're going to do, and judge that.  If I
genuinely thought that the story was screwed, I'd leave the show.  Because the
only reason to DO the show is to tell this story.  You have invested 13 hours
into this story; I have invested seven *years*.  And you don't toss aside 7
years because of an inconvenience.  The concept *is* what was sold to you.
But again, nothing that I can say will likely convince you of this...just as
nothing that I could say at the beginning could convince many people that we
were serious about doing an adult SF series, that would rank with Trek.  (One
person, prior to the election, upon hearing that ambition, snorted, "Yeah,
right, and Clinton will be president.")  What I said then, I say now: watch,
and judge from the reality.  Don't take my word for it.

     And I'm still standing beside that promise to tell the story that I
intend to tell.

                                                                 jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 1
Message 624       Sat May 21, 1994
STRACZYNSKI [Joe]            at 04:11 EDT

     Which is one of the interesting things I thought could be explored
here...up until now, Garibaldi has always had someone who would believe him,
back him up...how does he deal with someone new?  (Especially after the events
in "Chrysalis;" you'll understand when you see it.)  For the most part,
Garibaldi has been pretty self-assured; this, and one other incident, will
knock the pins out from under him a little, which gives us some *very*
interesting dynamics to explore, just for starters.

for a while.  He has to go somewhere.  And at some point, at least in my
planning, he will return from there.  This is far more about the character,
and the characters *around* him.

     Cyberdad: thanks.  That means a lot.

     It's always interesting, if you have one character upon whom everyone
else leans, even depends, to *remove* that character for a time.  Because then
those characters have to *react*...to either stand or fall on their own.  It
shakes things up a little...and vastly intensifies the characters.

                                                                     jms

 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 1
Message 722       Wed May 25, 1994
STRACZYNSKI [Joe]            at 02:29 EDT

     KB: thanks.

     Rhonda: Claudia Christian's done a *lot* of stuff, mostly film, including
"Hexed."  As for why Russian...that's in my blood, and I've rarely seen a
Russian character really done *right*, not a cliche, not "Yes, ve invent
everytink goot in world, da?" but the dark, pessimistic humor, the
introspection, the formality, the heart and the doomed viewpoint that is so
uniquely Russian.  So if you can't find it anywhere else, do it yourself.

                                                             jms

 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 1
Message 739       Wed May 25, 1994
STRACZYNSKI [Joe]            at 23:40 EDT

     Boy, I'm not sure where to start on all this.  So I'll take this in
reverse order.

     Tom, I'm not sure I see what your problem is.  The situation  concerning
O'Hare is one that needed to be approached in a constructive fashion, not to
alarm people, and to set the record as straight as possible.  Perhaps I've
sounded like I'm trying too hard to be polite.   This is the only way I know
how to react.  Perhaps I'm over-thinking the  writing.  I don't see a problem
with this; it's just who and what I am.

     And sometimes I have a tendency to respond to posters in the same tone of
voice in which they address me.  I probably should be better about this, but
when someone gets on and leaves an insulting or patronizing message, I fire
back.  There is nothing in any agreement with GEnie in which it says I must be
a sitting target.  I have never had a problem with constructive criticism --
and there's been a lot of it -- or questions of any sort.  People here know
that.  And I don't think I have to defend myself on that issue.

     The rest of your concerns I really can't suss out from your message
(which got rather pedantic itself in places, btw; be sure your own stuff
doesn't do something before you take someone else to task on it) except that
you don't like people reacting like people.

     Now to turn my attention to Wayne's message....

     Wayne, I don't mean this to sound harsh.  But I could give a flying f'
what your friends think.  There is this small faction of SF, and of anime
fans, who simply like to rag on other shows.  They sound very much like this
group who will never, ever be satisfied by anything other than the one small
narrow area which they have selected for legitimacy, and in whose relative (in
American terms) obscurity gives them some kind of cachet.

     I will not revise this show to appeal to Wayne's friends, and I will most
*certainly* not doing anything as stupid (I'm simply being honest here with
you, not attacking) as using gamers dice to determine who lives or dies in a
show.  I'd much rather let the *story* do that.

     What your friends don't seem to grasp is that there is a quantum
difference between a live-action series and a cartoon.  (Call it anime all you
want, it's still a cartoon.)  You can kill off a cartoon character, and it's
not the same as killing a human character, which puts the actor out of work
(whereas a voice actor dubbing someone just takes on another character), and
more intimately violates the relationship between viewer and character.  I
will admit that I have not seen as much japanese animation as I probably
should, but I have found it singularly uninvolving and the characters flat,
wrapped mainly around one or two characteristics, making them archetypes
rather than real characters.

     Live action and anime/cartoons are separate forms, with very different
requirements.  I've worked in both, and the differences are profound.  You
might as well start comparing stage plays with movies, and complaining that
there aren't as many sets and exteriors in the stage play, and thus it can't
compete with "world theater."  We're talking apples and oranges here.

     You (or your friends) think that characters dying makes the show more
real.  Wayne, it's *not* real.  It's a TeeVee show.  It's an illusion.
 It's not real.  And maybe your friends (who are a touch macabre) think that
dying makes a show real.  Well, that's their opinion, and they're entitled to
it -- whacky as it sounds -- but people also live, too, in real life.  Police
veterans and soldiers and ordinary folks very often live to a ripe old age.

     It's also a question of what the show is *about*.  This show is not about
who's going to die next.  This show is about how people react to some
monumental changes around them.  It's the journey and the process.   Death is
a rather abrupt end to the process.  Sure, you could've killed Aragon halfway
through Lord of the Rings, but frankly I think that seeing him go all the way,
and seeing his character change, and become the King, is one hell of a lot
more interesting.  Dead is dead.  Dead is wormfood.

     Anyone can kill a character.  That's the easiest, and cheapest way to
pump up false drama in a story.  For me, it's more interesting to see  someone
stay alive and *deal* with problems rather than just die.

     They are trying to apply their own arbitrary quotas to this show that
have *nothing* to do with the story that I'm trying to tell.  Personally, I
think you're *far* too worried about what your friends think.

     Finally, on the ethnic casting question...same thing.  You're trying to
apply geopolitical and population survey figures to telling a story.   We
don't cast *anyone* based on ethnic background.  We cast the best person to
walk in the room.  Period.  Which has led to just about every romance on the
show being between two different ethnic groups.  Further, Wayne, we don't
*cast* out of the Whole World Population.  We make our show in Los Angeles,
and our acting pool is drawn out of Los Angeles.  And sometimes you go around
looking for an Indian actor, and you find a few good ones, but none of them
are quite right for the part.  Now, do you cast someone who's wrong for the
part, or adjust the part to the best actor?

     I'm a writer.  I tell stories.  Your friends, and by proxy you, want to
randomize, politicize, and make arbitrary how a story is done.  You (and/or
they) want me to compare my show to Japanese cartoons, and try to play in
their field rather than making our own playing field.

     I'm not here to compete with japanese cartoons, or live up to your
friends' notion of what is "World Television."  I'm telling my story, my way.
And I encourage them to find a venue where they can tell their story their
way.  But it's got nothing to do with me.

     I hope this did not sound pedantic, or hostile, it's simply the reality
of the situation.

                                                               jms


 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 1
Message 753       Thu May 26, 1994
STRACZYNSKI [Joe]            at 01:33 EDT

     Kiwi: I was referring to killing a major (or substantive) character, not
killing a character in the course of a given story.

     Rhonda: no, not Russian Jew.  Background is byelorussian, White Russian,
with some polish in there somewhere.  Family came from a village named (I
believe) Bogdanova, between Minsk and Pinsk (I wouldn't like about that) in
the Carpathian mountains.  Anyway, that general area.  The family was
catholic, not jewish.  I'm actually one one-and-a-half generation American.
My grandparents came here from Europe, fleeing the Russian revolution, my
father was born here, but lived much of his early life in Germany, Poland and
Russia when he got caught there at the start of WW II in the blitzkrieg (on
the run for years as an american).  Harlan keeps telling me that mine is a
Horatio Alger story...kid from nowhere, immigrant family, goes to Hollywood
and makes it big.  Sounds more exciting than it is, I suspect....

                                                         jms


 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 1
Message 762       Thu May 26, 1994
STRACZYNSKI [Joe]            at 04:45 EDT

     Mr. T...actually, yes, we did audition a *lot* of Russian actors for the
part.  And we had to go back and forth, do we want an accent or do we not want
an accent?  Which kind of russian do we do?  Finally we simply fell back to
our position of "Whoever walks into the room and blows us away gets the job."
Claudia did that.

                                                                  jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 1
Message 763       Thu May 26, 1994
STRACZYNSKI [Joe]            at 04:56 EDT

     BTW...while I'm on the topic...for anyone who wonders why I just sit and
despair some days...I pass along to you the following, from the June 1994
issue of Satellite ORBIT magazine, page 23, in a roundup of SF series.

     "Deep Space Nine is remarkably close in theme and premise to another
recent syndicated series, Babylon 5, probably because in Joe Straczynski, they
share a writer-producer."

     So just for starters, now I'm a writer-producer working on DS9.

     "Michael O'Hare plays the station's commander, in the words of one wag,
as if he were 'Lorne Greene under hypnosis.'"

     This should start to give you a clue: if a reviewer has to quote another
reviewer (I think that one came from People), it probably means he hasn't seen
the show he or she is reviewing.  How can we now verify this?

     "Even the presence of Claudia Christian, who plays Babylon 5's second in
command with the worst Russian accent you've ever heard, can't redeem this
one."

     Okay, now, folks, maybe I'm confused, what do I know, I just created the
show, I just executive produce the thing, I just see every frame of film a
zillion times...but...am I nuts or am I correct in the notion that Claudia
doesn't PLAY the part with an accent?  She doesn't DO a Russian accent.
Anywhere.  Anytime.

     This reviewer-critter, Art Durbano, has clearly never even SEEN an
episode of the show, and can't even be bothered to get his facts straight.

     We never get a break.  Ever.

                                                                     jms

 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 1
Message 793       Sun May 29, 1994
STRACZYNSKI [Joe]            at 05:00 EDT

     I have *always* considered life to be composed of equal parts terror,
hope, pain and silliness.  So it shows in B5.

     Janice: that's a *very* good question, and I think maybe we should answer
it sometime.

                                                                 jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 1
Message 805       Mon May 30, 1994
STRACZYNSKI [Joe]            at 01:53 EDT

     I'm going to test myself, and see how much I can say without saying too
much.

     You have X-number of characters.  They're all in the same place.   You're
trying to tell a story that has a great deal of scale, and covers all kinds of
worlds, changing politics, alliances, on and on.  The question becomes, how do
you *illustrate* that?  To use a line from the original Trek, when a mob guy
is brought aboard the Enterprise, he says later, "All I saw was a room and
five guys."

     So now you start saying, "Hmmm...what if I remove Character A from the
chessboard, and move him over *here* for a while?  He wasn't going to be doing
much for the next little bit anyway.  And we won't just "deal" with that
change, it's part of the story...it broadens out the story to include Place A
*and* Place B.  It has repercussions down the road.  It comes up again in the
future.  Elements from Place B now become known on Place A.  Character A may
even make an occasional reappearance to keep us even more closely connected
with Place B, which is necessary because Place B is very, very important."

     What we have in mind here isn't quite comparable to anything that's been
done before.  The character will still be alive.  The character will continue
to have an impact on the story.  The character will be spotted from time to
time.  The character will continue to show up in the comic and the novels.
And through this move, you have the benefit of  substantially opening up the
B5 universe, you help create the realignment of characters and loyalties that
was anticipated for this season, and it helps kick over the tables, as we did
in Chrysalis.

     Just a slight refinement on the argument.

                                                               jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 2
Message 688       Mon May 30, 1994
STRACZYNSKI [Joe]            at 01:57 EDT

     Here's a little sidelight for you.

     As I've noted before, over the long haul, as you watch episodes, you will
see things you didn't see before.  Sometimes they're clues, and sometimes
they're comments which now read a different way than they did the first time
you saw them.  There's been a number of the latter very subtly sprinkled
through the episodes aired so far...lines that everyone jumped on as meaning
one thing, but which will mean something else, and lines which nobody thought
much of the first time out...but which will elicit a wince of irony later on.


     There's a corker in "TKO," but at the moment, it's absolutely invisible.
It's not a clue, it's not necessary for the story, it's just one of those
things that, after you've seen all the rest of this season's episodes, you
will go "Ouch," when you see it next.

                                                                jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 1
Message 812       Mon May 30, 1994
STRACZYNSKI [Joe]            at 17:44 EDT

     David: "The Quality of Mercy" title is drawn from the same source as
Compton's book, Shakespeare.  It has a lot to do with that episode.

     Probably the pilot movie won't be shown again this year, which again is
actually to the good.  Not much you really need to know from that one to enjoy
the rest.  (And I think it'll be out on tape eventually.)

     Haven't heard final word yet on the schedule, but that looks right so
far.

     A little something for your perusal, given recent discussions on
religion.

     Here's something interesting for y'all...and I wonder very much if the
news media is gonna cover this or not.

     Before I retire at the end of the day, I go out and watch TV to come down
a bit.  I cannot just go from the keyboard to bed, I *hate* that.  So about
1:45 this morning, I settle down in front of the set, and I'm flipping
channels.  I come across the Trinity Broadcasting Channel, and I stop, because
the three guys on the screen look actually honestly *scared* by something.  I
pause and listen.  One of them is saying that they should pray for the
president.  Now my first thought is, "Ohmygod, something's happened to
Clinton."  But it doesn't feel right, so I stay a bit longer.

     Now I had to put a lot of this together from the pieces of what they were
saying, but after about half an hour, enough pieces were there to make sense
of the conversation.  Apparently, an hour or two before, they had had a guest
evangelist on (whose name was *never* used during the period I was watching,
they would only refer to him as their distinguished brother), giving his guest
speech.

     Well, apparently the evangelist was decrying the state of the country,
and Clinton signing the anti-abortion protest bill, and declared something to
the effect that Clinton was the manifestation of the evil in the land, and
that God had given this evangelist a prophecy that on June 9, the evil in the
White House would be struck down.

     He was saying that on June 9, Clinton would be killed in answer for his
crimes against christianity, as near as I could determine.

     My jaw is now squarely on the floor.  And these three guys who followed
that segment are doing damage control.  And they're clearly scared, because
making a threat against the president is a federal offense, "prophecy" or no.
They had to find ways to diminish the prophecy without diminishing the
prophet, their "distinguished brother."  So they brought Nehemiah into the
discussion, and how his prophecy that the city would fall in 40 days turned
out not to happen because the people repented, and so some prophecies

     And one of the three was saying that the worst thing for the church in
this country would be for some "religious nut" (his own words) to decide that
he was the instrument of this prophecy, and kill or try to kill the president.
He also seemed upset with some groups in the christian community who had gone
too far, and were going to have to be slapped down.

     It was the single most riveting forty-five mintutes I have spent in front
of the TV, watching these people, knowing who their audience is, knowing that
if anything happened they'd be called to task for it, knowing the possible
consequences, *trying* desperately to talk some of the more, shall we say,
eccentric viewers of this kind of programming out of killing the president.
*Without* saying that the "prophet" who after all they just put on their
network...was a nutcase.

     Now, again, this went out on national TeeVee last night/early this
morning.  I'm gonna be REAL curious to see if the news media picks up on this
one.

                                                                       jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 1
Message 821       Tue May 31, 1994
STRACZYNSKI [Joe]            at 02:30 EDT

     Actually, we kinda thought that major intersections like that would have
light-grids in the floors (there are arrows pointing the way to various
intersecting corridors) all over the place.  Hence why we didn't change them.

     One problem with putting in a different, replaceable "floor" is the noise
hassle.  The natural floor is reinforced, and *quiet* when you walk on it.
Any overlay (or underlay) is going to result in bounceback and creaking and
other audio problems that'll require dubbing in post.

      But we'll look at it again, and see what else we can do here.

                                                        jms

 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 2
Message 665       Thu May 26, 1994
STRACZYNSKI [Joe]            at 19:49 EDT

     "Chrysalis, Part Two" will probably be the first shot, and it will be
201.

     None of the scripts mentioned were actually completed last season, and
will have to be considered.  Certainly Harlan's working on his "Demon" script
even as we speak.

                                                                jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 2
Message 668       Fri May 27, 1994
STRACZYNSKI [Joe]            at 03:34 EDT

     I probably could've tried to sell it as just part of the story...and
would be lying if I said I hadn't briefly considered it.  But it's just what
it is: a fabrication.  Better to take it on the chin and get it over with....


                                                                 jms
Category 18,  Topic 2
Message 670       Fri May 27, 1994
STRACZYNSKI [Joe]            at 18:31 EDT

     We won't know more about casting until we've got scripts in hand to begin
that process.

                                                               jms

 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 25
Message 476       Wed May 25, 1994
STRACZYNSKI [Joe]            at 02:36 EDT

     That's a long trip, and we ain't gonna get the Hugo, so I may not make
the trip, since we'll be hip-deep in production at the time.

                                                               jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 15
Message 294       Sat May 28, 1994
STRACZYNSKI [Joe]            at 03:52 EDT

     Mutari are aliens who fight in the Mutai.


                                                                 jms
 ------------
Category 19,  Topic 16
Message 170       Thu May 26, 1994
STRACZYNSKI [Joe]            at 01:40 EDT

     He didn't exactly become a disembodied voice...he moved away down one of
the two intersecting corridors, and called back.

                                                                    jms
 ------------
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 17
Message 580       Mon May 30, 1994
STRACZYNSKI [Joe]            at 20:00 EDT

     Since apparently this info was broken in the latest June Locus, I can now
mention that Dell will be doing the first batch of B5 original novels later
this fall.


                                                               jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 17
Message 582       Tue May 31, 1994
STRACZYNSKI [Joe]            at 02:33 EDT

     I'm working to develop outlines/premises for the novels that will allow
them to be part of B5 canon, same as the comic.  These will then bde (be)
assigned out.


                                                               jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 17
Message 585       Tue May 31, 1994
STRACZYNSKI [Joe]            at 21:02 EDT

     I suggested a novel set in the Line, but the editor felt that at first,
to help marketing the novels should be set in the B5 present; that fans will
be disappointed and not buy books if they're not using all of the characters
in their current situation.  At least, that seems to be her take for the first
batch, but down the road she has no problem with the idea.

                                                                jms

 ------------
Category 19,  Topic 21
Message 22        Wed May 25, 1994
STRACZYNSKI [Joe]            at 23:06 EDT

     Zima didn't pay us any money to do that, we just kinda thought it was
funny....

                                                              jms
 ------------
Category 19,  Topic 21
Message 38        Thu May 26, 1994
STRACZYNSKI [Joe]            at 04:41 EDT

     BTW, that's not just a painting.  If you look at the garden shot after
Ivanova leaves, you can see motion in the upper right corner, as garden
trackers move along the inner hull.

                                                             jms

 ------------
Category 19,  Topic 21
Message 58        Fri May 27, 1994
STRACZYNSKI [Joe]            at 03:29 EDT

     Larry wrote the shiva stuff all on his lonesome.  As for being an
abbreviated version...apparently shiva lasts 3 days for someone recently

deceased.  If it's been months since the death, the service is usually much
shorter, and again, there was only Ivanova and Koslov who actually were part
of or knew the deceased.

                                                              jms

 ------------
Category 19,  Topic 21
Message 67        Sat May 28, 1994
STRACZYNSKI [Joe]            at 03:49 EDT

     BTW, there's an interesting couple of articles about this episode in this
week's Jewish Journal, for another perspective on the show.

                                                            jms


 ------------
Category 19,  Topic 21
Message 93        Mon May 30, 1994
STRACZYNSKI [Joe]            at 19:58 EDT

     There were a number of reasons for changing prosthetics people, the main
one being that we felt that Optic Nerve could deliver more reliably on a
series basis, given the size and scope of this project.

     And you've got at least two more really alien aliens coming up this
season....

     (I'm told that shiva need not last 7 full days, if the death was not
recent, and if the body has already been buried.)



                                                                 jms
