Babylon 5 posts by JMS for November 1991 through Jan, 1992

This file includes a compilation of posts on GEnie by J. Michael
Straczynski in the Babylon 5 topic.  The posts are copyright by JMS
(and compilation copyright is by GEnie). 

 ************
Topic 22        Wed Nov 20, 1991
SOARON [Bio-Dread]           at 19:41 EST
Sub: Babylon 5                          

TWCNBN has been been named!  J. Michael Straczynski has managed to bring a new
quality to television and promises to do justice to TV and SF with a new
action-adventure SF series of his own design.  (NO story suggestions, please.)
447 message(s) total.
 ************
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 1         Wed Nov 20, 1991
SOARON [Bio-Dread]           at 19:41 EST

  That Which Cannot Be Named has finally been named, and the name is BABYLON
5.  An action-adventure SF series set in space.  To premiere sometime next
year with a two-hour TV movie, soon followed by regualar episodes if ratings
are good.  J. Michael Straczynski has said that people always complain about
SF not being done right on TV, well now it has a chance.

This series has a shot of making it if has the support of fandom.  So leave
your comments here and perhaps JMS will leave news and info here as the series
develops.

Soaron

 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 2         Thu Nov 21, 1991
STRACZYNSKI                  at 00:13 EST

     Babylon 5 is the name of a particular place where our story takes place.

     It is numbered 5 because 1 through 3 were sabotaged/destroyed, and 4
mysteriously vanished within days of becoming operational.  No one knows what
happened to it.  All of which makes those involved with #5 just a trifle
uneasy.

                                                                  jms

     P.S.  It might be useful if one of the sysops could move the initial
announcement message (or, rather, copy it) here for archival purposes.
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 3         Thu Nov 21, 1991
SF-LAWRENCE [Katherine]      at 04:29 EST

We live to serve.

=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
     Well, now that the official announcement has been made, here's the
straight skinny on BABYLON 5.

     For the last three years, this project has been in secret development
with some of the Major Players at Warner Bros.  Because everyone realized the
potential of what we had, we all played things VERY close to the vest.   Part
of the reason for secrecy was that it was slated to be one of several projects
that would spearhead what is, essentially, a new network formed between Warner
Bros. and a consortium of TV stations, similar in some ways to Fox
Broadcasting.  And that deal as well had to be kept secret.  It, too, was
announced today at the conference.

     I created the concept of BABYLON 5 somewhere in between working on
CAPTAIN POWER and TWILIGHT ZONE.  I'd seen so many SF shows by then that
backed into a budget, and thus went forever OVER budget, that I wanted to
challenge myself to develop a show that met several important criteria:

     1) It would have to be good science fiction.

     2) It would have to be good TELEVISION, and rarely are SF shows both good
SF *and* good TV; there're generally one or the other.

     3) It would have to take an adult approach to SF, and attempt to do for
television SF what HILL STREET BLUES did for cop shows.

     4) It would have to be affordable, done on a reasonable budget.

     5) It would have to look unlike anything ever seen before on TV, and
present not just individual stories, but present those stories against a much
broader canvas.

     The result was BABYLON 5.

     After creating the bible and writing a 2-hour script, I commissioned
artwork for the series, knowing full well that it would be difficult for most
execs to fully understand what I was trying to communicate unless they could
see it with their own eyes.  I then linked up with my producer from POWER --
who had previously run MGM studios -- and we formed a partnership to get the
show produced.  He and I will both serve as Executive Producers on the
project.

     Our first thought was syndication, and took it to the head of one of the
biggest consortium of stations around.  We didn't at that time know that this
group was putting together the Warners project, and in short order they
snapped up the material.  Because the fate of B-5 was linked to the new
"network," of sorts, we had to wait for that deal to go through.  Which  has
gone through various permutations, on-again, off-again, for three years.  They
never gave up on us once, and we never gave up on them.  Our support came from
the very top of both operations.

     It was our initial thought to begin with either one or two television
movies, and then proceed onto the series.  The reason for the movies had to do
with 1) a desire to bring down the per-show budget by building the lion's
share of our sets via the movie(s), and 2) because we wanted to hit the
airwaves with a big story, more an event via a movie than the series pilot,
which at one hour would probably get lost.

     And after three years, this has finally come to pass.  Phase One of
BABYLON 5 has been approved to production, and the financing is now in place,
and we have an approximate airdate and production schedule.  We have assembled
a REMARKABLE production team, some of whom are classified (on current projects
that they will leave to come work on B-5), but they include some of the best
EFX and art direction people around, including many responsible for HONEY, I
SHRUNK THE KIDS and the Henson-shop-supplied DINOSAURS.  People are coming out
of the woodwork to work on this show, threatening us with dire consequences if
they aren't allowed to work on it.

     As for the storyline and characters of BABYLON 5...I'm going to hold off
just a little while longer, until I know how much I can say at this point.
Some of it we're trying to keep fairly secret, but some other parts we can
probably talk about.  I just want to be sure I stick to protocol.

     I *will* say that it's set in the future, in space, that it isn't a
battle-oriented show, though it has more than its share of action.  One person
described it (for commercial purposes) as CASABLANCA in space, though that
doesn't quite hit the mark.

     More will be revealed as I am able to do so.

     The only other thing I will say is that we are going to need as much
support as we can get from the fan community.  By choosing to go the route of
a movie first as a pilot, we basically have one shot at the ratings.   It's
better than a single pilot, but still chancy, so we will need support and
every ratings point we can get our hands on to guarantee the number of
episodes ordered subsequent to the movie.

     For years, at conventions, I have heard fans lament, and even sat in on
panels entitled WHY CAN'T THEY GET IT RIGHT?  This, I firmly believe, is a
chance to do exactly that...to Get It Right, to take SF seriously, to build
characters for grown-ups (not a Wesley in the bunch), to incorporate real
science but keep the characters at the center of the story.  Over the next 11
months, they will have ample opportunity to voice their desire to finally Get
It Right.  And I hope they will.

                                                            jms

 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 4         Thu Nov 21, 1991
STRACZYNSKI                  at 15:20 EST

     Some other info that I've been cleared to state:

     Phase One of BABYLON 5 -- the movie -- should air around October of  the
coming year.

     Phase Two -- the series -- is now slated for the following March.  We
figured close to that, but now it's on the dockets.

     Stations set to carry the project include: WWOR New York KCOP Los Angeles
WPWR Chicago KBHK San Francisco WDCA Washington D.C. KTXA Dallas KTXH Houston
WUAB Cleveland WTOG Tampa KMSP Minneapolis WDZL Miami KPLR St. Louis KRBK
Sacramento KUTP Phoenix WNUV Baltimore WTXX Hartford KPTV Portland, OR WSTR
Cincinnati KSMO Kansas City

     More stations will be added as we go.

                                                            jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 5         Fri Nov 22, 1991
STRACZYNSKI                  at 01:52 EST

     For those into computer stuff, you may want to check message 403 in my
topic on Cat 8 for some info on what's being developed here in that area.

     In brief, we're going to be taking a completely different approach to EFX
than has ever been done before, using cutting-edge technology in creating the
images.  We've received massive support from one of the computer EFX companies
that's on the very edge of this stuff, one of the largest around.  We've
assembled quite a brain-trust.

     And here's a surprise for you: if you will find a copy of MILLIMETER
magazine -- I think it's either this month or the one just preceding it -- you
will find a computer-generated photograph that is described only as "a work in
progress" for an SF series.

     That is the first published photograph of BABYLON 5.

     (You see how sneaky we've been?  How quietly this has been going on?)

                                                              jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 6         Sat Nov 23, 1991
STRACZYNSKI                  at 04:13 EST

     There is going to be a VERY strong female character.  Although there is a
male who operates as the titular head of BABYLON 5, and is more or less a de
facto representative of...a certain group, BABYLON 5 itself is actually *run*
on a day to day basis by (oh, what the heck, give her name) Vice-Commander
Laurel Takashima.

     Now, this may not mean much until you understand what BABYLON 5 the
actual *place* is, and how it works.  Which will come soon enough.  If I were
to look at that OTHER sf show, hers is a much more authoritatve and
independent role than, say, that of Riker.  And there are other very strong
female characters.

     I have a tendency to gravitate toward female characters in stories.
Those who might remember CAPTAIN POWER will recall that the lion's share of
personal stories were about Jennifer Chase, and those were generally our best
stories.

     As for cast...we're not going to go for big names, in large part because
we don't want to bring on people with a lot of baggage from other shows.  (No,
no Gil Gerard.)  New faces to television, but with a background in classical
training.  We want ACTORS, with CHARACTER in their faces, not models or
"hunks."

     See, by virtue of working on a number of SF shows, and knowing others
who've been involved in still others, I've had the chance to find out what
does, and doesn't work, and how to capitalize on that.  By talking to the
fans, and appearing at cons, and using this and other systems, I've been able
to find out what the fans want, and to combine that with my own personal
vision.  So when I'm asked, "Will there be strong females?" I think of TNG,
and "Why can't there be a female #2 or captain?"  And I remember the other
concerns, from BOTH sides of the fence.

     Those who don't learn from the past are doomed to repeat it.  Life's too
short for those kinds of mistakes.

     Which is why, from the very beginning of this project, three years ago, I
sought out and began laying the foundation for bringing on the best and the
brightest, to give the project a look unlike anything ever seen before on
television.

     But frankly...talk is cheap.  Judge us by what we *do* now what we say.
SF fans have heard this stuff before...and have been disappointed.   I'm
determined not to go that route...but don't want ANYONE to take my word for
it.

                                                              jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 7         Sat Nov 23, 1991
STRACZYNSKI                  at 19:52 EST

     Agree re: female characters.  I very much want to see a woman in a
position of power who is perfectly well-adjusged, has good relationships, the
same basic number of character flaws as any other individual in the show...in
other words, a Person, not a stereotype.

     As for being "in the planning stage" above...incorrect.  We've been IN
the planning stage for three years.  Now we have a Go order for production,
which will commence in the spring on Phase One.

     As for the location...no, it's not a saloon or anything of that nature.


     And regarding the various characters...I *like* a mix of good and not-so-
good characters as regulars, people who are flawed, who you might enjoy
talking with, but you wouldn't necessarily turn your back on them.

     In terms of explaining the show, I've decided that the best way to use
this particular medium is to schedule out information.  We have about 10 or 11
months before Phase One hits the airwaves (which is actually fairly short for
a show of this scale).  Since there are 9 main characters in B-5, plus the
location itself, I figure one big release of info per month will carry us
through to broadcast.

     So on or about December 1st, I'll post here the info about exactly what
(and where) (and why) BABYLON 5 is.  Then one character description per month.
I'll also post a revised list of TV stations some time prior to broadcast to
handle the added locations.

                                                               jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 8         Mon Nov 25, 1991
STRACZYNSKI                  at 03:59 EST

     For those who might be interested, I have just uploaded a file -- #3085 --
into library 5.  It's a .PCX graphics file that contains the BABYLON 5 logo.
I did the scanning myself, so it's a little rough around the edges, and it's
based on the initial draft of the logo, which is now being cleaned up.  But
this is fundamentally it.

     One note: please understand that this logo is both trademarked and
copyrighted, and is uploaded here ONLY for individual viewing.  Any other use
is strictly prohibited.

     Most graphics display programs like Compushow (CSHOW) will work just fine
on the file, as will Microsoft Paintbrush.

     For the show, the logo will be split at a diagonal, raggedly.  We will
see the two parts in space, rotating toward one another.  The line where the
two should join will begin to glow.  Music rises.  The two halves come
together with a FLASH of light, and we get a metallic looking complete logo,
looking like it's made out of heavy-gauge steel.  We then PAN OVER the logo to
reveal Babylon 5 in all its glory.


                                                                     jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 9         Tue Dec 03, 1991
STRACZYNSKI                  at 00:42 EST

     Thanks for the vote of confidence.  I don't think you'll be disappointed.

     And now, at last, some hard info.

     The date: 2257 A.D.

     We have gone to the stars, and found that we are not alone.  We have
moved quickly out, establishing relations with other civilizations that has
let us leapfrog technologies via an information and cultural exchange with at
least one other culture.  Many contacts have been friendly.  Some have not
been quite so benign.

     From 2250 through 2252, war raged between the Earth Alliance and the
Minbari, an alien federation.  The EA was losing, badly.  As a last resort, a
suicide perimeter was set up around Earth, known as the Line.  Every last ship
we had was on the Line, in a desperate defense of Homeworld.

     And on the brink of winning the war, just as they were breaking through
the Line...the Minbari surrendered.  To this date, no one knows why.  They
could have won, but chose not to.  The secret behind their surrender will
gradually play a part in our story.

     But that was now 5 years ago, in our story.  There is now an uneasy peace
between the Earth Alliance and the four other alien federations.  To help
cement that peace, the EA has constructed BABYLON 5.

     BABYLON 5 is a five-kilometer-long space station in neutral space more or
less central to all five of the different alliances, human or alien.  To get
to one or the other, you have to pass through this sector of space.  Thus,
Babylon 5 has been created as a sort of port-of-call for travelers, statesmen,
emissaries, traders, refugees and other, less savory characters.  Five
kilometers long and two kilometers wide, Babylon 5 is divided into separate,
discreet sections that rotate at differing speeds to provide different
gravities to accommodate those who come to the station.  There are also
sections with alternate atmospheres.

     The station boasts living quarters, customs areas, docking bays, meeting
areas, a casino, several bars/nightclubs, command and control spheres fore and
aft, and a decent defensive grid.  In addition, each of the various
federations has one official representative aboard the station (with the
station's commander representing the Earth Alliance), so that it also
functions as a sort of mini-U.N.

     It is home to humans and aliens in various roles, some arriving or
departing every day, others working there full-time.  They live on the very
edge of the frontier, in the sense that if they get into trouble, there's no
one who can arrive in time to help them.  Because of the nature of the
travelers, they bring their stories with them to Babylon 5 rather than having
to seek them out.  The stories are of people in flight, seeking sanctuary;
stories of smugglers, assassins, traders, mappers, dignitaries and others, all
on urgent missions of one sort or another.

     If STAR TREK was "Wagon Train to the Stars," then BABYLON 5 is Casablanca
in space.

     It is humanity's last hope for peace, a single hope in the middle of an
uneasy, fragile peace.

     And it *is* fragile, and dangerous.  It is called BABYLON 5 because the
first three efforts to build the station were sabotaged and  destroyed.  The
fourth one disappeared without a trace 24 hours after becoming operational.
No one knows what happened to it.

     And *that*...is only the beginning of our story.

                                                               jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 10        Tue Dec 03, 1991
STRACZYNSKI                  at 14:01 EST

     Thanks.  As mentioned, I'll probably layer out one character or setup per
month, rather than shoot it all out at once.  So for now, I'll be talking
about the world of Babylon 5, the background, Earth history and the like.  For
now, I'll say that there are basically five major Earth Alliance characters
who run the station, and four representatives, each from the other alien
confederations.

     And for those who've been asking repeatedly on another show for a woman
in a position of great responsibility, wait until you meet Laurel Takashima in
a month or two.

                                                                jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 11        Wed Dec 04, 1991
STRACZYNSKI                  at 00:13 EST

     Thanks to all for the good thoughts.  (And my Visual Consultant is
already on me about making patches...sigh.)

     There will be a novelization, though we haven't yet set a publisher.

     Today the finalized artwork on the B-5 logo came in (what's uploaded here
is a rough version).  It's absolutely *gorgeous*.  The Warner Bros. publicity
guys are working like busy little beavers, putting together the hardcover
presentation volume about the show for the stations, they're absolutely stoked
about the show.

     In a couple of weeks, right before the Christmas break, we're going to
assemble the full production team, the First Team as we're calling it now, for
an all-day meeting to go over the original 2-hour script and see what
 production suggestions there are.  Then the rewrite will be done over the
Christmas break, which will lock down the draft until we actually  get close
to production, which will necessitate some additional changes for set and
other requirements.  We're starting to add on other production staff now --
assistants and the like -- since things are starting to heat up a little.

     Thus far, we've got two Executive Producers (me and Doug Netter, with
whom I worked on CAPTAIN POWER, a man every bit as grumpy and curmudgeonly as
me, and he's a hoot to work with...particularly since he tends to leave me
alone story-wise), a Line Producer (John Copeland, also from C.P.), a
Conceptual Artist/Visual Consultant (Peter Ledger, the artist who did the
artwork now in hand), a computer effects wizard (Ron Thornton of NewTek,
inventers of the Video Toaster, folks who are on the cutting edge of EFX
technology), a Production/Set Designer (John Acavelli, from such movies as
HONEY, I SHRUNK THE KIDS) and about half a dozen others, mostly young, eager,
bright folks with a chip on their shoulder in the sense that they want to show
what this show, and they, can do.  It's not enough for ANY of us that the show
succeed; we want it to kick ass.

     We won't start casting until after the first of the year, when the script
has been locked down.

                                                                jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 12        Wed Dec 04, 1991
STRACZYNSKI                  at 01:34 EST

     I know what happened to B-4.  And to B-3, 2 and 1.

     Bear in mind, this thing has been in secret development for three years.
During that time, with the script and artwork and bible finished, all I COULD
do was background the story to the Nth degree.  I now know far more than I
ever thought I would about the universe of BABYLON 5.

     And what happened to B-4 will at one point come back to, um, "haunt"] B-
5.

                                                                jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 13        Thu Dec 05, 1991
STRACZYNSKI                  at 00:40 EST

     Hmm...I'd appreciate any more info you may have about those patches (from
computer or video).  Could be very handy.

     As for the REAL GHOSTBUSTERS episode, yeah, that one -- "Janine, You've
Changed" -- came out pretty well.  One of my personal favorites.

     I don't think the collected CAPTAIN POWER episodes will *ever* be made
available, sadly.  I don't think even *I* have a complete set; I have those I
wrote, or co-authored, and maybe one or two others, but I'm missing a few here
and there.

     As for actors...we will be using standard channels.  We will have a
casting director chosen by the first part of the year, and that person will be
available to agents same as any actor or casting director.  The drill is well
known.  As co-exec producer on the show, I will have quite a bit of input into
casting, based on what's recommended to me.  I would mainly concentrate on
classically-trained actors with a lot of stage work behind them, some film/tv
work, but who aren't yet over-exposed.

     The only role that I've cast in my head is that of the station's resident
telepath (NOT an empath, a telepath, who is available to sit in on business
negotiations, sort of a "Rent-A-Telepath," to make sure that the man on the
other side of the table isn't lying to you).  There's an actress I've seen
who's *perfect* for the role, and has some genre experience, though she isn't
over-exposed yet.  (Memo to myself: I have to call her agent tomorrow and see
if I can set up a meeting.)  Beyond that, the field's wide open.

                                                               jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 14        Thu Dec 05, 1991
STRACZYNSKI                  at 03:22 EST

     Well, lemme comment on that.  One of the reasons -- and there are many
others -- for coming out here like this and, as you say, putting myself and
the work on the line is my belief that this is right, and this is the kind of
show that the fans have been looking for.

     And I'm willing to stand behind that, and be open about it, without
giving away the real surprises in the project.

     For the better part of a decade, I've been on panel after panel, and gone
to convention after convention, and listened to the fans talk about what
they'd like to see in an SF series.  How they want solid characters,
imaginative stories, no kids or cute robots, using science the way it should
be used, not talking down to the audience.  That desire has been noted.

     I think there is a certain frustration among a large percentage of media
fandom that they aren't listened to.  This is my way of saying that you HAVE
been listened to, somebody HAS been paying attention.  What forms the stories
and the characters must, perforce, come from one voice, you can't create
anything worthwhile with a committee...but in terms of tone and sophistication
and attitude and range, that's where you can be open to giving the fans what
they want, and what they have been asking for now for a long time.

     This is simply one more effort undertaken to make the fan community a
part of the process.  One noteworthy thing about the creative and production
team that we've assembled is that they're ALL fans of the SF genre.  They've
grown up on it, and they want to give something back to it, to stand on the
shoulders of the giants that preceded us and try and do something *different*.

     I stand foursquare for communication.

     For this series to be special, it helps for the communication to be just
as special, and open.  This is a part of that process.

                                                                  jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 15        Sat Dec 07, 1991
STRACZYNSKI                  at 20:17 EST

     Well, the other day I got to see the official Warner Bros. -- well, I
don't know what to call it, exactly, it's a lot more than a brochure, but not
a book, and not a flyer...it's what they've made to send to the various TV
stations (allied and non-allied), and for the Warner Bros. salesmen to take
around with them to the stations, and for the overseas market.

     It's a three-part foldover on slick, card stock, photographic grade
stock.  The front piece has the main B-5 artwork of the station in space, a
binary sun in BG, a planet, and several surrounding ships coming in to dock,
beneath the final version (for now) of the B-5 logo.  It's reproduced in
stunning color.  You open that up, and you find text on the inside of the
flap, and continuing down inside are character descriptions and the artwork on
each of the main characters.  The second flap (folded beneath the first) is a
cut-out all along on side, the cut-out conforming to the profile of the B-5
station.  Open up that flap, and you find the artwork of the interior of B-5.

     It's absolutely *gorgeous*, full color, and everyone who's seen it has
gone nuts for it.  The overseas folks, normally reserved, are already asking
for dibs.  We're getting a terrific response.  What was also fun for me,
personally, was turning the whole thing over and seeing, there by the Warner
Bros. logo, "Rattlesnake Productions in Association with Synthetic Worlds,
Ltd."  (The latter is my production company.)  Cool.

     Having worked on this for so long, it's taking a while for it to come
through to me that this is finally REAL, that every day more and more people
are getting involved with something that came out of my head one day, that
folks in England and Italy and Japan and other countries are getting into the
picture, that layout and graphics guys are putting together whole campaigns
around the program...jesus, it's amazing.

     Also received a preliminary copy of the final budget, and it looks good.
Now we're looking at real money, and the responsibility starts to really come
through.  Now we have to DO IT, and do it the way we've been planning all
these years.

     I think I'll go lie down for a while....

                                                               jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 16        Wed Dec 11, 1991
STRACZYNSKI                  at 23:57 EST

     Two responses: on the input side, we don't have a strong network hand to
worry about on the material.  Thus far, they've had zero creative notes.  One
individual had one suggestion, which made sense, and has been implemented.
That's it.  Nothing from Warners at all.  My associate on the project, Doug
Netter, also tends not to get involved in story.  "I'm not the writer, you're
the writer, you figure out what you want to do with this" is his usual
comment.  When we worked together on CAPTAIN POWER, he said he would never
give me a creative note because he wasn't a writer, and he held to that
promise.

     So to all intents and purposes...it looks like I'm going to be pretty
much left alone.  If we succeed, great, if we fail, this time I'll have no one
to blame but myself.

     As for alien-aliens vs. humans with bumps...bear in mind that as much as
we'd like to use REAL aliens, thus far we haven't encountered any.  So all of
the roles will have to be portrayed by humans, and we'll do as much as we can
to make them look as alien as possible.  And in some cases, as mentioned, we
won't ever SEE them because they'll be concealed inside atmosphere-controlled
encounter suits.  In the background, and where we can, we'll pepper really
unusual looking aliens into the show, but bear in mind that if we're going to
relate to these characters, and have our main cast relating to them, they have
to be understandable (to varying degrees), and because they'll have to emote
to one degree or another, we will have to leave some facial aspects free.

     But within those parameters, we're going to try some interesting stuff.
None of us much likes the "humans with head bumps" look, and we are all
dedicated to doing as much as we can to change that and come up with something
new.

                                                                 jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 17        Fri Dec 13, 1991
STRACZYNSKI                  at 03:00 EST

     Yeah, we're trying to come up with new ways of doing stuff.  Makes it
more interesting.

     Quite a day today for B-5...exhausting.  First in come the color
portfolios at last, then we have THE FOCUS GROUP!

     I know, I know...you're wondering what a focus group is.

     The studio pays lotsa bucks to engage a research group to bring in two
groups, one group of women, one group of men.  They are then given synopses of
the movie, the series episodes, the characters, all the stuff that for now
can't be posted here.  And they get to react, giving us some parameters in
terms of marketing and, to a smaller extent, the story and presentation.

     Going in, we were told how it would probably break down: "The women will
love the character stuff, the relationships, and hate the action, and the men
will love the action, but hate the character stuff and the relationships as
'soap opera.'"

     Sonuvagun, but that's how it turned out.  And after having worked for so
long to convince studio heads that SF fans want other than EFX, there were
these guys saying, "Oh, yeah, special effects is the most important thing to
me...and action, heck, science fiction MEANS action, fights and stuff."  I'm
surprised they couldn't hear me banging my head against the wall through the 2-
way observation mirror.

     That stuff aside, though, we tested VERY positively, and even got some
good ideas out of it.  It was strange, as the person who created all this, to
look out through a 2-way mirror and see, for the first time, "civilians"
discussing the characters and situations of Babylon 5.

     One more step on the long road set before us....

                                                                  jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 18        Fri Dec 13, 1991
STRACZYNSKI                  at 20:51 EST

     Believe me, I have no patience with or interest in focus groups or
research or anything of that nature.  My feeling is quite simple: in the early
stages of a project, you should be willing to at least *listen* to anyone.
Because sometimes good ideas come from the damndest places.   But you can't
WRITE that way.  You take all the input, but finally you as the writer have to
sit down and use what makes SENSE in the story.   The day I abdicte that
responsibility is the day I get out of the business.
 I've never seen a project that was Made by research or studio suits.  If it
works, it's because the project stems from one clear vision, and one clear
voice.

     Just as one example...while I didn't agree with many reactions of the
"civilians" -- especially since they were working off a summary, not the
complete script -- the one point that *did* strike home was that it takes a
while to get going.  We set up suspense, and a lot of time introducing the
characters.  But a nice little hook at the beginning, I realized, just a
little fillip, would be a good idea to goose things a bit.  Now, I may change
my mind when I get behind the keyboard to revise the script over the Christmas
break (mainly for myself, and my own desire to strengthen the script, which
has been around, after all, for quite some time, and I've learned a lot since
that initial draft), I may decide to jettison that notion, I don't know.  But
it's worth considering at the very least.

     Fundamentally, if you're going to create a series, write and produce it,
you've got to follow your instincts.  Besides, the whole POINT of the exercise
is so that you won't have anyone making decisions for you  anymore, you do
what YOU want to do with it, and let the chips fall as they may.  To do
otherwise, given the angst involved in getting a series this far, is dirt-
stone-stick stupid.

                                                                jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 19        Thu Dec 19, 1991
STRACZYNSKI                  at 13:49 EST

     Btw...for those who might be interested, apparently -- and I haven't seen
it, I can only relay what I've been told -- there will be an article on
NewTek, our computer guys on B-5, in the next STARLOG SPECTACULAR, and the
article will contain a half-page or so photo of Babylon 5.  (This is probably
one of the early, rough versions of the station, so I don't know exactly the
configuration.
               
                                                           jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 20        Thu Dec 19, 1991
STRACZYNSKI                  at 19:51 EST

     Yes, at this stage, we're going to use computer-generated images for the
exterior of Babylon 5.  Done right, you won't notice the difference between
that and a model.  (In fact, some of the SFX guys to whom we've shown a later
version of the demo tape were absolutely unaware that they were looking at
computer EFX; they thought it was a model...and these guys are experts.  They
also thought it must've been one hell of a miniature, given the detailing and
depth of the thing.)

     The cost is *slightly* less than with a model...but what it gives us is
truly ASTONISHING options.  For instance...we have a ship waiting outside B-5,
awaiting the word to proceed into the docking bay.  We can go from the POV of
the ship to B-5, out of the ship, approach the station, go up to a viewing
port, through which we see our characters in a live, filmed scene, and push
THROUGH the port RIGHT INTO THE SCENE, all in ONE CONTINUOUS CUT.  And what's
cool is to see them from the space side of the "glass" first, and we can't
hear what's being said, since there's no sound in space.  Then just as we push
through into the room, THEN we suddenly hear the dialogue, as if we've
penetrated a membrane.

     There are some really amazing things that we can do that, again, have
never been seen before, using the technology that's come along in the last few
years.

                                                               jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 21        Wed Jan 01, 1992
STRACZYNSKI                  at 06:13 EST

     Since it is now January 1st, time for another piece of information about
the B-5 storyline, which as mentioned will be parceled out one per month (and,
again, I'm talking about the *major* points, each of the main characters and
the backstory, though the plot of the movie will be kept confidential).

     Here's an interesting bit of backstory.

     The story of BABYLON 5 takes place in 2257.  In 2236 or thereabouts, the
Earth Alliance made First Contact with a race known as the Minbari.   They
were, at that time, only the second major civilization we'd encountered,
though we had certainly come across a number of non-aligned worlds and smaller
governments, one or two worlds each.  The Minbari represent a *major* force on
every level, resources, technology, sheer number of worlds involved, on and
on.

     The Minbari are the oldest of the different alien civilizations, and
largely kept to themselves.  Their interests were (and are) in attaining
perfection: physical, mental, spiritual, emotional.  They answer to a Council
of Elders, whose pronouncements are considered law in an almost biblical
sense.  Though deeply religious in their way, they have also pursued the ways
of technology, and as such they are easily the most advanced of the various
alliances.  But they view technology as transitory, a means to an end rather
than an end in itself.  Like Tom Bombadil in LORD OF THE RINGS, they can hold
the Ring of Technology but it has no hold over them.                      


     And from 2236 until about 2247, we were at war with them.

     The Earth/Minbari war began as a misunderstanding.  The first time a
Terran ship encountered a Minbari starship, they studied each other closely.
The Minbari ship made a move that they thought would be considered non-
threatening.  It wasn't.  Even in the present of our story, no one is quite
sure who fired first.  The Minbari ship was greater in power, but taken by
surprise, was destroyed, and the Earth ship limped back to base with tales of
a terrible new enemy.  Minbari ships, arriving to investigate, were
interpreted to be the first wing of an invasion force by the base commander,
and ships were launched in response before receiving formal authorization from
Earth Central.

     The war put a great strain on the Minbari, who have always been strongly
divided between the religious caste, and the military caste, who were now
forced to work together.  The religious caste were quietly opposed to the war,
but were generally vague about their reasons when asked.

     The climax of the war was the Battle of the Line.  Earth had all but lost
the war.  In a last-ditch attempt to save Homeworld, every available ship left
in the armada was positioned around Earth itself.  It was, everyone knew, a
suicide mission.  And that's, indeed, how the Battle of the Line started out
to be.

     In the course of that battle, a lone ship -- a one-man fighter with very
little in the way of armaments -- took several heavy hits.   His instruments
failing, other ships blowing up all around him, he aimed his ship at the
nearest Minbari cruiser, deciding to ram it in the hopes of destroying at
least that one ship.  He kept his ship on course for as long as he could hold
out.  Then, abruptly, he blacked out.

     When he awoke, he was still in his ship.  Drifting.  He fired up the
engines, ready to continue, only to discover two things: first, that he had
been out of it for a full 24 hours.

     Second...the war was over.

     And, incredibly, the Minbari had surrendered.  On the very verge of
success in the war, they had rolled over and sued for peace.  No one in the
Earth Alliance quite knew why, but they weren't about to debate the issue, and
accepted minimal compensation for the war.

     Now, ten years later, the Earth Alliance is no closer to figuring out why
the Minbari surrendered.  It is, in fact, one of the great puzzles of that
era, debated on a hundred different worlds.  Only a few strange clues have
slipped out.  One is that the military genius who led the Minbari into the war
committed suicide the day of the surrender, though it is unclear if his death
took place before or after the surrender.  And the rift between the military
and religious castes apparently came to some sort of climax, with the
religious caste taking complete control.   There are rumors of some sort of
religious vision, of a prophecy of great things, and a prophecy of complete
doom.  But since almost nothing is known of Minbari religion, what this might
be, no one knows.

     At the conclusion of the war, those Terrans who fought in the Battle of
the Line were proclaimed heroes.  One of these men was Captain Jeffrey
Sinclair...the pilot who still cannot account for the 24 hours he was out of
contact with Earth Central.

     Commander Jeffrey Sinclair has come far in the 10 years since the war.
He's had some rough times, but overall he's progressed.  And he has at last
been given a major assignment, perhaps the most important job of his life,
concomitant with his promotion to Commander.

     Jeffrey Sinclair is the Commander in charge of the Babylon 5  space
station.

     Although the station (and its prededessors, Babylons 1 through 4, which
were either destroyed (1, 2 and 3) or mysteriously vanished (4)) was always
intended as a sort of mini-U.N. as well as a free-port, with an Ambassador
from each different alien alliance present, the Minbari refused to name an
ambassador until the station commander was named first.
 Shortly after Sinclair was named Commander, the Minbari assigned their first
ambassador to the station.

     His name is Delenn.  And he stays very close to Commander Sinclair.

     Some say he is keeping a close eye on Sinclair.

     Some say he is Sinclair's friend.  And some say there may well be
something very lethal behind those unreadable Minbari eyes.

     And there are quite a few others, including a shadow-group in the Earth
Alliance, who would very much like to know what happened during the 24 hours
that disappeared from Commander Sinclair's life.


                                                                jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 22        Wed Jan 01, 1992
STRACZYNSKI                  at 06:19 EST

     Small typo in the preceding: it should read that the Earth/Minbari war
lasted from 2236 to 2247, not 1147.

     This, by the way, represents only one small segment in the overall
history of the world of Babylon 5.  I've literally worked out a couple hundred
pages of condensed notes.

     So...whadaya think?

                                                                  jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 23        Wed Jan 01, 1992
STRACZYNSKI                  at 19:54 EST

     I would very much like to go for a soundless explosion...though logically
the shock wave from any near-proximity explosion would cause some disruption
in anything nearby, I would think.  So if, for instance, something exploded
near B-5, the ext. space shot of the blast would be soundless, but if we cut
to the int. of B-5, there would be some sort of vibration or similar
disruption, I should think.  (Hmm, I'd better look into that further,
since...well, never mind why.)

     Yes, some of this will be in the 2-hour movie, just enough to set the
stage.  As for Delenn, yes, he is of a somewhat philosophical bent, but he
takes great pleasure in his emotions, which is another difference.  And he
will look quite different.

     I've been trying to come up with a very off-beat plot turn to pull in
seasons 3 or 4 (assuming we ever GET that far, again, I'm working all this out
in advance and hoping for the best), and this morning I came up with something
SO neat, SO unusual, I practically slipped in the shower.  It's something that
has never, EVER been done in an SF series involving a major character.  And
boy, will this have major ramifications!  Too bad I have to wait so long to
pull it off.

     Oh...I forgot to mention one other thing about (then) Captain  Sinclair's
curious incident above (and yes, this will come up peripherally in the movie).
When he lost consciousness, he had 16 hours of oxygen left in his ship.  When
he awoke 24 hours later...he had 12 hours of oxygen left in his ship.

     Funny, ain't it...?

                                                                   jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 24        Sat Jan 04, 1992
STRACZYNSKI                  at 04:48 EST

     There are, in fact, a number of splinter groups in the world (or the
universe, I suppose) of B-5.  There are individuals who claim residency in no
particular group or government, they're free-traders of the purest sort.
Within the Earth Alliance, things are structured more or less along the lines
of the Commonwealth of Independent States we're seeing now, with one
monolithic voice that speaks in tersm of foreign policy, but within the
framework of everything else -- domestic policy, economics and the like -- the
independent state makes its own rules.

     So their are colonies and fringe areas that consider themselves  by and
large independent.  And, from time to time, there will be sparks of secession
and the like.  I've never much liked the Gleaming Steel Of A Perfect
Federation approach; I like things a little more tentative, less sure.  And
for that matter, even WITHIN the E.A., there are factions and problems and
power struggles and the like.  Wheels within wheels.

     As for locations inside B-5...we've designed a number of very different
looks and locations to give it a non-claustrophobic feel.  By virtue of being
patterned physically after the work of such scientists as Gerard K. O'Neil,
the absolute center of the elongated station (which revolves to provide
gravity) is a sort of hollow-world look, with fields and hydroponic gardens
along the 386-degree circular section (which is about a half-mile, or a mile
across)...and as you get closer to the absolute center, where a transport tube
cuts from one end of the station to the other, naturally you get less and less
gravity until you can literally hang suspended.

     And there are living areas designed to accommodate different
environments and atmospheres and conditions.  The alien sectors are off-limits
to humans without protection (breathing gear and other measures).  Similarly,
a heavy CO2 breather or methane breather would have to wear an encounter suit
to travel among the humans on the station.  In addition, the B-5 station is
actually made up of several independent (though connected) sections, each
revolving at a different speed in order to create alternative areas of
gravity.

     Parts of the station are still under construction, and parts are
finished.  Some sections are in daylight, some in night, alternating by level
and sector.  On the very outer ring, the viewports are in panels ON THE FLOOR,
so you're looking down and out into space, revolving beneath your feet.

     BTW...the Babylon 5 station isn't just floating there.  It's at the L-5
point in a binary star system between a moon and a barren, lifeless planet.

     Well, a *theoretically* barren and lifeless planet, anyway....

     But that's Year Two....

                                                              jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 25        Sat Jan 04, 1992
STRACZYNSKI                  at 19:28 EST

    Cam: yes, exactly.

    Psion: whoof!  What a bunch of questions!  Some of the areas you hit are
areas we're still discussing.  We *will* have jump-drive technology using
hyperspace.  About 5 klicks away from B-5 is a...well, I haven't yet decided
WHAT to call it...it's a jump-point through which most ships enter normal
space to approach B-5 from hyperspace.  There are two constructs, about a half-
mile long each, paralleling each other, and both fairly thin, which produce a
dampening field that helps ships decelerate as they come out of hyperdrive.
The effect as the ships come through the jump point should be quite
spectacular.

     We do plan to touch on some of the medical/biological issues you raise,
though that'll have to wait for the series, naturally.  I thnk that's a VERY
fertile area for not only scientific and story exploration, but sets some
profound moral and human questions as well.

     The technology on ships and weaponry will not be consistent.  I think
this is very important.  In ST, the technology levels are all pretty
standard...phasers/disrupters, and warp drives and transporters...except for
the packaging they could all be buying from the same K-Mart.

     We're devising as many new technologies as we can, and dividing them up
between the different species/groups.  Each group is constantly trying to
upgrade to the next level, and get the other group's technology.  We even have
tech-runners, smugglers who trade primarily in data.

     As for the look of things...I like things bulky and functional.  I want a
gun that looks like it WORKS.  I want uniforms with POCKETS.  A too-clean
future doesn't interest me.

     How's that for a start?

                                                                  jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 26        Sun Jan 05, 1992
STRACZYNSKI                  at 04:58 EST

     If we didn't think we could do the show up right for the money we've got,
we wouldn't be doing it.

     Given that I can log on here even in the midst of production on the show
I'm currently doing, MURDER, SHE WROTE, I figure I can keep on showing up
throughout the B-5 production.

     To the question of vision...yes, this is entirely my baby in that
respect.  There has to be direction, firm and complete, from the top for ANY
show to be successful, I think.  But what you then have to do is get people
you trust involved AND LISTEN TO THEM.  You tell your tech guys, "Okay, what I
want to do in this scene is X, how can we do that?" and they give you options.
Let them run with it.  Then take whatever works best visually and for the
story.  By giving every person the freedom to be creative, the show works
better, the attitude is better, and it all accrues to the benefit of the
person running things.

     We don't at this time have a science advisor per se, though that's
something we're considering when we get to series.  There's certainly a solid
brain-trust available at JPL, which is practically down the street.  (Curious
thought...we don't normally expect SF writers to hire science advisors, they
tend to do their OWN work...and I think that as much as possible, I'd like to
try and hew to that standard.  I'm not a major science guy, but I know enough
to hold a conversation, and by going to writers who ALREADY ARE SF WRITERS, I
think that will go a long way toward taking care of the problem.  But one way
or another, we're still thinking about it.  We already have a visual
consultant, and we'll have a creative consultant when we get to series to make
sure we don't accidentally duplicate any stories already in the SF
literature.)

     One last note re: the B-5 logo.  Again, that's an early version.  The
finished (for now at least) version is in, and it's being used on all of our
mailings and the like.  It's the same basic design, but it's in burnished
copper and gold against jet black, and it looks like it's been carved out of
solid steel, with a slightly 3-D look.  That symbol, btw, will also be used IN
the show.  The upper, pyramidal section will be incorporated into rank
insignia, with a separate bar below finishing off the symbol.  The symbol will
be altered to fit various professions and status.  That, at least, is the plan
for now.

     Almost 2/3rds finished revising the movie script.  I hope to have the
darned thing finished soon.  We can't do SQUAT until it's in hand.  So here I
am, an exec producer, waiting impatiently for the damned writer to finish his
rewrite...and it's me.

                                                             jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 27        Sun Jan 05, 1992
STRACZYNSKI                  at 19:18 EST

     Mayhap it was the parrot that threw them off....

     As for language...most times, since other groups know that they're going
to a station run by the Earth Alliance, they'll take time to get the basic
language down.  But, of course, there are always equivilants of the Ugly
American who doesn't have the time.  In those cases, there will be a
computerized translator, under which we will faintly hear their actual
language.  And, from time to time, it could be fun to have two different
species at an impasse because neither understands the other.

     One of our regular characters will normally use the second method of the
computerized translator because we will never see his....

     Oops.  Too soon.
     Never mind.

                                                               jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 28        Sat Jan 11, 1992
STRACZYNSKI                  at 00:08 EST

     Here, after many consultations with Wise Men Who Weild Great Power, is
where things stand for now, I think.

     1) Apparently, B-5 met with a *very* positive reception at the INTV
conference in San Francisco.

     2) Our contract with WB and the independents stations guarantees our
production as a movie, with the series still very solid.

     3) The B-5 movie is going to air this year, in the fall/winter.  There is
no conceivable way that anyone else can beat us to the punch on that.  It WILL
be made, and it WILL be aired on schedule.

     4) Given that there is going to be a lot of PR attendent upon the airing
of B-5, it would seem counter-productive for any other studio to watch a well-
publicized movie being aired in 1992, and then come out with a similar concept
in 1993.  There would be no question as to who was there first, and the
newcomer would, I think, be viewed as less than original.

     So for now, we're hanging fire and waiting.  In two weeks is NATPE the
*main* marketing gathering for independent TV stations.  And stations will
have to decide whether they want a show that's ready to go NOW, or something
very tenuous that will take another year.  And, again, we are LOCKED IN to the
stations that form the consortium, and they include many of the top stations
and top markets in the country.

     So we'll see.

                                                                   jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 29        Sun Jan 12, 1992
STRACZYNSKI                  at 05:14 EST

     Haven't heard of POINT CENTRAL, and I think I'll avoid it for the time
being, for obvious reasons.

     In terms of "literary or visual influences," frankly...well, I thunk it
up.  Somebody has to start SOMEwhere.

     Where it began, really, was an Einsteinian thought-experiment.  I'd seen
SO many SF shows ruined by backing into a budget that ended up always being 2-
3 times what they'd said it would be, that I sat down, very deliberately, and
said, "Okay, let's see if we can come up with a show that's SF, that isn't one
of the TV Generics (Man On The Run, Man In  Search Of New Worlds, Man Trying
To Find His Way Home), and that can be contained."

     The major source of expense on a show is creating new worlds every week.
So I figured, this should be stationary.  I thought about the sorts of shows I
liked in TONE...Hill Street Blues, St. Elsewhere, even M*A*S*H, and in each
case, there was created a center of operations and YOUR STORIES CAME TO YOU.
Look at L.A. LAW (which I can't abide)...you set up a law office, and people
with problems come to you.

     So: a stationary locale, where people in trouble come to you.  This led
me to also think of post WW II Germany, where American, French and British
forces (and, I think, some Russian) patroled equally to make sure that no one
side got the upper hand.  It also put me in mind of the early free-ports of
the 19th century, which were noted for some pretty rough characters, for
adventure, for intrigue and smuggling.

     Put those various elements together...and you've got BABYLON 5.

     That's where it came from.

                                                                 jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 30        Sun Jan 12, 1992
STRACZYNSKI                  at 18:00 EST

     J.LAHUE....clearly you haven't been getting NEARLY enough sleep.   Does
your mom know you're doing this?

     Regarding the WW II stuff...bear in mind that was the feathering of my
mind in the early stages.  That does not represent where the show is NOW, only
what process took me to this.  While I don't like any sort of analogy to what
went before -- only because it creates images and expectations that may not be
exactly the same, and for that matter should not be exactly the same -- the
"Casablanca In Space" log-line is the most accurate.

     As for SF influences in more general terms...I don't want to leave the
wrong impression.  I LIKE SF, and grew up reading it.  I don't have any
particular school (Analog vs. F&SF) that I belong to, I just find what I like
and read it.  I suppose you could find the scope of the show in my
appreciation from youth of such books as the LENSMEN and FOUNDATION books, and
the CHILDHOOD'S END material.  That is the KIND of saga that I'd like to
present.  Too-hard, meaning too technical SF doesn't terribly interest me.
The technology is a means into the story, and should not (in most cases)
BECOME the story, unless you've got something really extraordinary on your
hands.  The story is how it AFFECTS someone.  (Kurt Vonnegutt's "Report on the
Barnhouse Effect" being a good comparison.)

     I suspect, as the program progresses, you'll catch little influences of
Bradbury, and Serling, and THE PRISONER (there's a certain surrealness in some
later stories I've planned out), with a healthy dollop of Clarke and Asimov
and Ellison.  But I don't think there's enough of any ONE to make a clear
distinction.

                                                                jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 31        Thu Jan 16, 1992
STRACZYNSKI                  at 03:43 EST

     Absolutely.  And to anyone else...feel free to transfer the material in
this topic to any other system (kindly noting whence it came), and to give it
to friends or whomever.  The only systems to which this permission is NOT
 given are the Idle Gossip BBS and the TFI BBS, which will only mean anything
to those who know what it is/they are, and beyond that I won't elaborate.

     Next week is NATPE, the main marketplace for selling shows to TV
stations.  Anyone out there who wants to call their independent local TV
stations (Fox is included in this), or ALL their independent stations, and
suggest that they pick up B5 is more than welcome to do so.  It could be of
help.

                                                                jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 32        Fri Jan 17, 1992
STRACZYNSKI                  at 00:18 EST

     At this point, we're looking at same-diameter sections rotating at
different speeds.  My feeling is...if you can buy hyperdrive, you can buy that
we've got some spiffy new construction technologies.

     Regarding the NewTek tape...did the video you saw feature a ship entering
the docking bay of the station?  And were there huge solar collectors at one
end?  Were sections rotating at different speeds?  If so, then yes, that was
BABYLON 5.  (Though that must be an odd copy, or they've done some strange
color correcting, because B5 is steel grey in color, augmented by black in
some areas and the solar collectors are a metallic blue, though not garish.)
My *suspicion* is that yes, that was BABYLON 5, especially since you mentioned
the flickering stars, which are present in the rough test demo (was there also
a ringed planet in the background)?

     What I'm *pretty sure* you must've seen was the very first test demo of
the Babylon 5 station.  Later, the length of the video was expanded, we
layered in an early version of the B5 logo, music was added, plus the shot of
a single ship docking.  (That was for perspective; for those who might see
this, the ship at the beginning of the sequence is about the size of a Boeing
727...and when we first see it from a distance approaching the station, it
looks practically like a fly until you zoom in on the docking bay.)

     So, based on what you saw, I gather you approve?

     Regarding ads and publicity, yes, thus far I've been consulted, as was
the case with the color brochure.  As we gear up more, I'll be further
involved in all aspects of publicity, in order to control the image that goes
out.  I'm not that involved in the NATPE stuff mainly because that's a
specialization of the marketing guys, and they know that aspect more than I
do.

                                                                jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 33        Sat Jan 18, 1992
STRACZYNSKI                  at 01:55 EST

     I don't yet know which stations in Canada will be carrying B5.  Once I
have a comprehensive list of stations, I'll post it.

     Okay, folks, listen up:

     You say you've been hearing about this Babylon 5 station.  You say you'd
like to know what it's gonna look like.  You say you'd like to know how big it
is.  Well, step right up, ladies and gentlemen, boys and girls, here's your
chance to see just what the heck we're talking about.

     Proceed immediately to your nearest magazine rack.  Pick up issue #4 of
STARLOG SPECTACULAR, which just hit the stands.  Turn to page 54.  And there,
in full color, is a half-page photo of the Babylon 5 space station from a
frontal three-quarter angle shot.  The little ship about to pull into the
docking bay is about the size of a 727, and the station is built to scale.
You can see the main airlock starting to iris open, and the blue things right
on the very edge of the picture are the solar collectors.

     You'll notice the modular sections, for the varying gravities, as
discussed.  And there are ports, an observation deck, and the like.

     Now mind you, this is a *fairly* early version of the station, so it's a
bit cleaner than what we'll see in the final version.  But this is pretty
close.  (We'll also make the station a bit darker, closer to steel grey...the
photo has it kind a bit lighter than that.)

     Anyway, there is it.  Anyone who'd like to digitize it and upload it here
as a GIF file is welcome to do so.

     (Note: the photo doesn't identify the station as B5 because at the time
the article was being prepared, B5 was still TWCBM, That Which Couldn't Be
Mentioned.  Top-secret.  And we didn't yet know what the time-frame was.
NewTek is permitted to use the material to show its capabilities, but at that
time was not allowed to identify it.  In future, that proviso will not be in
force.)

     It's rough, and it's being revised, but it's there.

                                                                  jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 37        Sun Jan 19, 1992
STRACZYNSKI                  at 03:26 EST

     Thanks for the info.  And yes, that spaceship-breaking-orbit shot is also
from the B5 demo.

                                                                   jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 39        Sun Jan 19, 1992
STRACZYNSKI                  at 17:22 EST

     I will pass this on to our tech guys, who can probably answer most of it
better than I can.  Two things that I can comment on: the crops grown in the
very center of B5 will be grown under artificial lighting conditions to
replicate natural light.  Heck, we've already got lights that can be used
underground and in nurseries for that purpose...and creating such an
environment that way is easier than a complex system of mirrors and windows
(and windows are at best problematic, now matter how strong they are).

     Second it *does* take quite a bit of time to fully decelerate for
docking.  One option you have to save time is the energy-dampers positioned
quite a ways outside B5.  We're still working out the technology on that one,
but it *seems* to hold up.

     Oh...and yes, we're looking at a gravity range from 0 to 2Gs.  Anybody
not content with that can bloody well deal with it.

                                                                 jms

     "Babylon 5: We're A Space Station, Not The Club Med In Space"
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 41        Sun Jan 19, 1992
STRACZYNSKI                  at 18:50 EST

     Why not?

     Besides, don't forget that humans have to be able to at least GET into
some of these areas if necessary, even though it may be extremely
uncomfortable.  (So okay, maybe 3Gs.)  Otherwise you find yourself in a
situation where an alien can do something destructive, escape to the high-G
sections, and no human can follow.  Seems kind of impractical.

                                                                 jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 45        Sun Jan 19, 1992
STRACZYNSKI                  at 20:47 EST

     Okay, for those interested, I now have a more specific schedule to work
from, based on our latest discussions with all parties.

     I finish my revisions on the 2-hour screenplay (entitled "The Gathering,"
for those interested) by February 1, about two weeks, give or take.  Then two
weeks to get in the notes from Warners.  Two more weeks to attend to whatever
suggestions they may have.  The screenplay is then locked down by March 1st.

     We go into design and casting March 1st.  Production design, art
design/directing and tech teams begin work.  We begin checking out the
director we're going to use.  First part of April we begin blueprinting of
sets and construction.

     We finalize cast and director by the end of May, and begin shooting June
1.  We finish shooting June 26th.  We go into editing and post production, and
come out with the finished film by early or middle October, and deliver to
Warners and the stations.  (By the first part of October we also deliver a
three-minute trailer to the stations for use in promoting B5.)

     BABYLON 5: The Gathering then airs the third week in November, during
sweeps.  Probably on a Tuesday night.

                                                                    jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 48        Sun Jan 19, 1992
STRACZYNSKI                  at 21:44 EST

     Thanks, any publicity helps.

     The NewTek scene being shown around is the early stage of the B5 concept.
There won't be a full-scale model built, it will exist entirely within the
computer EFX realm.  And the latest stuff I've seen is photo quality; you
can't tell.  I showed the new material to SFX guys who know the field inside
and out, and not ONE of them picked up on the fact that it was computer
generated until I told them.  They all thought it was a model.

                                                              jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 59        Tue Jan 21, 1992
STRACZYNSKI                  at 00:36 EST

     BABYLON 5 is a deep-space station located in a strategic sector of space
that is heavily traveled, a jump point for journeys, with representatives from
various civilizations on board.

     DEEPSPACE 9 is a deep-space station located in a strategic sector of
space that is heavily traveled, a jump point for  journeys, with
representatives from various civilizations on board.

     Funny...I don't see what's similar about them at ALL...even if there ARE
some other points of comparison that I can't reveal for fear of compromising
my OWN story.

     As for the reason for rebuilding B5...it was an idea that was right, and
those responsible refused to knuckle under to what was, in effect, terrorism.
During WW II, someone asked Winston Churchill what he would do if a V-2 took
out Big Ben.  "We shall rebuild it," he said.  And what if they knock THAT
down?  "We shall rebuild it again, and again, as many times as is required.
Because it is not theirs to destroy, it is OURS."

     B5, at this crucial time, is the last, best hope for peace, and there are
people dedicated to pursuing that peace, whatever the cost, however many times
others may try to destroy it.  Those aboard B5 know the risk, but come because
they believe in what it stands for, just as U.N. observers go into a country
knowing fully that they may be killed.

     Why rebuild the Enterprise?  Why make more shuttles after one blows up,
even though you KNOW that the odds indicate that at least one more will go,
sooner or later?  Why continue with the Gemini space program even after those
astronauts died in that terrible fire?

     Because the universe doesn't reward you for doing what's safe, and easy.
Because courage and persistence is what pulled us out of the seas and onto
land and dragged us through millions of years of evolution.   What sets the
human race apart from everything else is our persistence, the stubborn, noble
dignity that propelled Washington's men, when offered the chance to stand down
during the revolutionary war, when they were tired and bleeding and
frostbitten, to refuse to knuckle under, and to go on.

     During WW II, again, there were cases of planes sent in to bomb strategic
sites...and when one batch was shot down, another wing went off.  And another.
And another.  Until finally SOMEONE got through.   Because it had to be done.
The consequences were too terrible otherwise.

     We have come into an age when it seems passion is passe, when the very
common coin of our shared humanity, the willingness to put our lives on the
line for a cause or a belief, seems somehow suspect.  Why do people rebuild
BABYLON 5 even though it's not safe?  Why do they go there when it's not safe?

     Because the Earth/Minbari war ALONE almost wiped out humanity.  We can't
afford NOT to be there.

     And these people are willing to put their lives on the line to see' that
that never happens again.  Because they damn near won the first time, and the
next bunch might well finish the job.

     One of my favorite pieces of verse is from Tennyson's ULYSSES.  And it is
at the core of what BABYLON 5 is about.  It concerns the final voyage of
Ulysses...older, tired, who has lost his family and most of his kingdom and
most of his men, betrayed and saddened...and he gathers up those few surviving
members from his earlier journey, and as they prepare to push off, he
concludes with a final benediction: "Though we are not now that strength that
in old days moved earth and heaven, that which we are, we are: one equal
temper of heroic hearts, made weak by time and fate but strong in will, to
strive, to seek, to find and not to yield."

                                                                   jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 61        Tue Jan 21, 1992
STRACZYNSKI                  at 03:07 EST

     Because of Babylon 5's function as a free port, the laws are a bit dodgy.
Outside B5 it's neutral territory, it's only when you set foot inside the
station that you fall under Earth Alliance regs.  Even so, you have to tread
carefully.  You raise some good points, and that is an issue that's going to
have to be dealt with.  Some sort of preventive measure would seem to be in
order...it's just a question of figuring out WHAT.

     Thanks for the comments...and the opinion, which is one that a lot of
others are coming to share re: the situation with That Other Show.

                                                             jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 62        Tue Jan 21, 1992
STRACZYNSKI                  at 03:10 EST

     BTW...this Friday's HOUR 25 will be dedicated to the question of how one
gets a show on the air, the rigors and traps involved therein, and will follow
the long history of BABYLON 5 as an example.  (What a coincidence!)  Joining
me and my co-host Larry DiTillio will be B5 line producer John Copeland, and
EFX wiz from NewTek, Ron Thornton.

   Anyone in the LA area, feel free to tune in.  And if anyone wants to comment
on anything, the phones are open midway through the show....

                                                               jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 70        Tue Jan 21, 1992
STRACZYNSKI                  at 20:29 EST

     For info on HOUR 25 -- the SF talk show I host, with others on
alternating nights -- check out the topic in Cat 19.  Topic 3.

                                                              jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 81        Wed Jan 22, 1992
STRACZYNSKI                  at 01:29 EST

     Yes, it was BABYLON 5 in the CNN Showbiz Today clip from Newtek.   For
those who missed it (*I* didn't know it was on until I heard it on another
system!), it'll be on again tonight at 2 a.m. Pacific, 5 a.m. Eastern time.

     I *think* I know what you're referring to re: Jello aliens, and will
check out the message.  If it is what I think, I may have another comment on
all this.

     Interestingly enough...originally the new TREK show was supposed to begin
PRODUCTION in Spring 93 for a debut Fall '93.  When we announced that we were
going to air the B5 movie in Fall '92, suddenly they moved the airdate for
*their* show to January 1993.

     This is, honestly, NOT a coincidence.  And I'm going to be amused to
watch them try to catch up...we've got a screenplay, a production team, visual
concepts, a bible, EVERYthing...and I *know* that they have only a
treatment...no series bible, no screenplay, nothing.

     This is getting more interesting by the moment....

                                                           jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 82        Wed Jan 22, 1992
STRACZYNSKI                  at 01:43 EST

     Okay, I just read the pertinent notes on 21/21 regarding the new TNG
spinoff, and the "Jell-O Man," clearly (as indicated in the prior messages
there) a morph/shapechanger.

     Guess what?

     As I mentioned in 21/21, there was also a shapechanger on the B5 station
in the screenplay that Paramount has had now for some time.

     What *I* like is the fact that in the current version of the script, I'm
omitting the shapechanger because that technology is, in my view, overexposed
right now.  By the time it hits the air, morphing will be so common that it's
old hat.  (It WASN'T old hat when I wrote the original screenplay several
years back.  That was the goal with the current rewrite...to make the script
as far in advance NOW as it was when I first wrote it.)

     And the coincidences just keep on coming....

                                                                 jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 85        Wed Jan 22, 1992
STRACZYNSKI                  at 02:20 EST

     We're keeping all of our options open at this time.

                                                                jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 93        Wed Jan 22, 1992
STRACZYNSKI                  at 13:29 EST

     Regarding the NewTek B5 demo...no, that wasn't done with the Video
Toaster.  In this case, NewTek is noted because it's the company that MADE the
VT, but this isn't an aspect of that, insofar as I know.  They've come up with
some startling new technologies for computer-generated EFX, and in fact Ron
Thornton, our one-man brain trust, is completely REWRITING THE CODES
specifically to accommodate B5.

     When the opening sequence is completed, the trailer will be one
continuous take of the starship pulling away from the planet, scooting across
space, then we pan in from FIVE MILES OUT, join up with the ship as it enters
the docking bay, and go THROUGH the docking bay...ending up right on a live-
action face of one of our characters inside.

     And yes, we'll be slowing down the animation a bit, partly for
aesthetics, partly because real objects should have mass and weight and
shouldn't move *quite* that fast.  Also, I have some additional ideas on how
the B5 station should look, and we'll be incorporating those in as well.  The
*basic* form and shape will, I suspect, stay pretty close to what you've seen.

                                                                 jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 100       Thu Jan 23, 1992
STRACZYNSKI                  at 00:05 EST

     Yes, the ship arcing away from the planet, as you describe, is part of
the B5 demo.  The sequence is reversed; first the ship leaves the planet, THEN
it arrives at B5.  Look carefully at the front of B5 and you can see it
pulling in.

     I initially roughed out what I wanted in the station; basic shape and
configuration, the use of rotating sections, docking bay at the front, that
sort of thing.  Peter Ledger then did the preliminary artwork, and then Ron
Thornton did the computer version.

     I have to tell you, it was way cool to turn on the TV and see the Babylon
5 station on CNN after all this time.  Even with the hassles, it was kinda
nifty.

                                                                   jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 103       Thu Jan 23, 1992
STRACZYNSKI                  at 01:57 EST

     B5 is a "hollow-tube" type station, similar in some ways to the  Gerard
K. O'Neil stations.  And I don't know what platform is being used,
unfortunately.  (Metal?  Wood?  Just kidding...)

                                                         jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 133       Sat Jan 25, 1992
STRACZYNSKI                  at 22:04 EST

     Sorry for the absence; was up to my ears in alligators.  Just time for a
quickie...the show has now been sold into a LOT more markets, and I should be
able to post the new station list here in the next week or so.  It met with a
VERY enthusiastic response.  Nothing but continued support.

     Will bring in some new info in another week or so also regarding the show
per se.  And while I'm not sure exactly what's meant by "expand" the idea, I
*do* like a show that grows and changes a little from time to time.  Shifting
relationships, the occasional character who goes off or gets croaked, changes
in character that catch you by surprise, so that will definitely be the case.

     My problem right now, in looking over the B5 screenplay, "The Gathering,"
is one of personal overload.  There's so much that I want to get into this,
but if you lay in *too* much backstory and exposition, you get dull REAL fast.
So that points you in the direction of action.   Too much action undercuts the
character/backstory/offbeat stuff that will make the project DIFFERENT.  It's
got to be accessible enough for reg'lar folks, at least for the movie, but
strange/SFish enough to let the fnas (or fans) of the genre now we mean
business.  Agh!

     I think I'll go lie down....

                                                                 jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 143       Sun Jan 26, 1992
STRACZYNSKI                  at 20:59 EST

     Actually, Eric, you're right one one important count...the hydroponics
will be at the center of the station, as you describe...and that section will
indeed be known as The Garden.  Which has both resonance from the original
Gardens of Babylon, to a certain Judaeo/Christian myth, both of which will
gain more resonance as the story develops over the long term.

     Found a way around the problem I'd mentioned, and now things seem to be
back on track.  Also found out Friday that a really NIFTY effect I'd hoped for
can, indeed, be done for the show.  I won't elaborate except to say that we
can show a ship arriving like nobody's ever seen before.  It's gonna be nifty.

     Also got some other good news on Friday from NATPE, but I'll have to wait
a few days before I can announce anything about it.

                                                                 jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 147       Mon Jan 27, 1992
STRACZYNSKI                  at 00:44 EST

     As stated, the picture of B5 in Starlog is from a VERY early stage of
development.  The actual version, in later renditions, is darker and -- for
lack of a better term -- more *massive* in its feel.  And there will be
considerable polishing in terms of how it looks.

     This is *strictly* my own opinion (though it's a pretty solid one, I
think)...but frankly, I don't think it's even REMOTELY possible for the Other
Show to begin filming in June.  At present, there's neither a bible nor a
script for it.  If you're going to start filming in June, you need a script
NOW.  Or at least by the first of February (which is when "The Gathering" is
due).  You need to run your script past the studio, then start conceptual
design (and in our case, we're ahead and it's STILL going to be tight),
construction, casting...and none of that can happen until you've got a script.

     I don't see that happening (filming) on the Other Show until the fall or
VERY late summer.  Even at that late date, though, there's still every chance
that they could hit air by February '93.

     And bear one other thing in mind: if they could shoot in June, they could
release in November, when B5 airs.  And they're not.

     So phooey on them.

     Just finished another act on the script.  Closing in on the end.  The fun
part of this is trying to imagine the future, and trying to come up with ways
in which things can be done differently for TV, ways no one has really dealt
with in TV.  One of our recurring characters (not a regular, in that sense,
but someone we'll see from time to time) is a woman who is, for lack of a
better term, a Rent-A-Telepath.  She works for B5, but she is available for
businessmen who need to make sure that the person across the table can really
deliver what's promised.  (Note: she is not the only one, they're pretty
common in business at this time in the future.)

     Not an empath, by the way, but a proper, licensed (Psi-Corps, Level 5)
TELEPATH.  Bound by all the regs of the P-C.  No random scanning, no access to
the gaming tables, no unauthorized dipping, all deals must be on record.  And
there's the privacy question that TNG has never really dealt with.  A telepath
peeping into someone's mind or emotions without that person's permission (or
that of the next of kin) can likely have his or her license revoked.  It's a
basic right of privacy...whereas a Certain Other I can think of is constantly
peeping into people's emotions and feelings without so much as a by-your-
leave.  And, again, this will be the very exacting reading of thoughts, rather
than a, "I sense discomfort" sort of thing.

     In the focus group, that character elicited considerable interest from
the subjects.  I suspect the idea of a Rent-A-Telepath is appealing for a LOT
of reasons....

                                                                 jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 150       Mon Jan 27, 1992
STRACZYNSKI                  at 03:17 EST

     Actually...we're using hand puppets.

     I'll get the specs and try to put the info here as soon as I can get it
in a form I can understand.

                                                                 jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 161       Tue Jan 28, 1992
STRACZYNSKI                  at 01:09 EST

     Actually, I hadn't yet given the planets in the neighborhood of B5 names
yet, only numerical designations.  Hmm.  I have to confess I rather like
Tigris and Euphrates.

     As for the jump-point...as it turns out, I moved it out QUITE a bit from
the station after my original posting.  The more I thought about it, the more
it seemed best to move it back.  (For one thing, I need to buy about five
hours from the moment A Certain Ship arrives through the jump-point, until it
decelerates enough to dock at B5, so that seems to indicate pushing it away a
bit.)

     Finally, as regards t-shirts...maybe.  Will advise.  How about this: the
B5 logo (the FINISHED version, which is 'way cool) on the front, and ACCEPT NO
IMITATIONS on the back...(smile, couldn't help myself).

                                                               jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 166       Tue Jan 28, 1992
STRACZYNSKI                  at 03:13 EST

     I think someone else here might have the info on the GIF file.

     As for characters and story...that remains the first concern.  The
discussion here got a little EFX/tech heavy, but ain't nothing wrong with
that.  Bear in mind, also, that I can only reveal so much here without
compromising the movie.  There will already be, doubtless, folks who've seen
so much here that what would ordinarily have been suprising when the movie
airs will now seem expected...because they read it here.

     I'll pass on what I can, as I can.  Be assured, as a writer, story is and
will always be my first concern.

                                                                jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 185       Wed Jan 29, 1992
STRACZYNSKI                  at 03:09 EST

     I'm trying to decide if I actually want to upload the final version or
not.  Well, not so much if I *want* to...I do...but whether or not I should.
The problem, basically, is one of control.  How can you tell if something -- a
flyer, a release, a piece of art or a shirt -- is an authorized piece from B5
Central, or something counterfeit?  That logo is a pretty good means of
telling the difference.

     Once the final image is uploaded, it becomes easily distributed, and that
*may* open up difficulties.  It's something I'm going to have to think about a
bit longer.  In the interim, take what's there and imagine it rendered in
solid, stainless steel, with a silver trim running around the edge of the
whole thing, giving it a 3-D look, and instead of solid colors, as it is now,
the colors look airbrushed or reflectorized, as though made of coppor and gold
catching the light and throwing it back.  THAT is the final (for now) version.
If that undergoes further changes -- I'm giving thought to making the word
BABYLON bigger, as though cut from a solid steel template -- then I will have
no compunction about putting up Logo 2.0.

     Does that make sense?

                                                                  jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 195       Thu Jan 30, 1992
STRACZYNSKI                  at 01:14 EST

     YAAAAAGGGGHHHH!

     Stop-stop-stop-stop-stop.

     One hard-nosed Absolute Enforceable here: tech stuff is one thing, but
the telepath discussion is ranging into concrete story ideas, and that opens a
LOT of danger for me, particularly since a couple of things hit upon here are
in the script as it stands now.  (Answer: yes, I *am* ahead of you, Correa.)

     Please, that's the only request I have to make in this regard: NO STORY
IDEAS OR SUGGESTIONS.  We are in deeply litigious times.  Just today I
received a legal piece of paper from a pinhead in Georgia who thinks I swiped
his idea for a ZONE, and that's probably going to involve lengthy legal stuff
to prove that I didn't do it.  (The script, and the material on record BEFORE
the script predates his material by a long, long, LONG time.  He knows this,
but is going ahead anyway in hopes of harrassing the studio and me into making
a settlement to dispense with this...which AIN'T gonna happen.)

     Anyway, the point being this becomes very problematic.  So while we will
let stand what's here, please, no more on this approach.  Thanks.

                                                                jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 206       Thu Jan 30, 1992
STRACZYNSKI                  at 13:44 EST

     I'm not worried overly about anything here thus far, I only wanted to cut
it a little short before it got too problematic.  (Especially since one of the
points suggested is actually one of the main events in the movie.)  Don't mean
to inhibit anything, just a reminder, that's all.  And the Tigris/Euphrates
thing is something that's intriguing, and is still being considered, as is a
great deal of the tech stuff.

                                                                  jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 212       Fri Jan 31, 1992
STRACZYNSKI                  at 00:04 EST

     B5 doesn't use fusion.  It uses *nothing* but the very FINEST in fairy
dust.  (Actually, I haven't stated, though it *does* have solar collectors,
big ones.)

     KL, please give me 24 hours notice before you archive this topic so's I
can do a fast download me own self.

                                                                   jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 215       Fri Jan 31, 1992
STRACZYNSKI                  at 00:47 EST

     Insofar as we can tell, the EFX work via computer will be easier and
faster.  The B5 demo that's floating around was done literally in about a
week, by one guy working part time.  Look at that and imagine what we can do
once we get our full team working full-time.

     I don't know if you'll see more or less such EFX on B5 as opposed to TNG
because I haven't really counted.  We'll use them as required by the story.  I
think the mix on "The Gathering" is a little light on EFX, because so much of
this story is establishing the characters and the relationships.  So we'll
take what efx we DO have in that episode and make them REALLY spiffy.

     I'm *pretty* sure that Ron Thornton told me we can generate 5-8 NEW
minutes of EFX every week once we get to series.  Bear in mind that many of
the space EFX you see on a show like TNG are recycled or composited using a
mix of old and new film.  We can do all that PLUS put out a very substantial
amount of new EFX.  And we'll be using those EFX in interesting ways that I
think will be fairly original in look and feel.

     One thing that I'm planning toward now is a mid-season crisis, and we'll
be squirreling away bits of EFX for that episode early on, since the script
will be finished well in advance of the shooting.  What I want to do -- and
again, this is the series part -- is have one episode where we just kick over
the table and go for it: a major, armed conflict between dozens, maybe even
HUNDREDS of individual ships.  Think some of the sequences in RETURN OF THE
JEDI as a boilerplate.  And what will be cool, what the EFX guys have sketched
out for me, is that we can begin from the POV of one ship, move away as it's
blown up, move THROUGH AND BETWEEN the other ships, change direction, and pull
back to the B5 POV, all in one continuous take.  It means preparing WELL in
advance, but I suspect that the result is going to be worth it in spades.

     Which is, again, one of the benefits to working things out on a show or
film far in advance, as with a novel.  Instead of lurching from one script to
another, never knowing what's coming next, we'll have a full time-line to work
from...what approximate EFX will be required, what sort of sets we will need
down the road, that sort of thing, which means we can make things look better
overall.

     I just wish we were PAST the movie already, and moving on.  But one
crisis at a time....

                                                          jms
 ------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 220       Fri Jan 31, 1992
STRACZYNSKI                  at 14:01 EST

     Regarding jump-points and how they're used...I'm going to hold back on
that for now.  In talking to our EFX people and the usual neepers, I've come
up with a really cool technology and a visual to go with it, and given that
there's another show, I shouldn't mention names, you should never speak ill of
the...anyway, ANOTHER that will use a sort of transit point/wormhole effect,
I'm sitting on that info for now.

                                                                   jms
------------
Category 18,  Topic 22
Message 222       Fri Jan 31, 1992
STRACZYNSKI                  at 23:52 EST

     Also you're a day early.  February has 31 days.

                                                        jms
 ------------@
