JMS (and coproducer George Johnsen) Usenet messages for April/May 1997.


Date: 1 Apr 1997 12:30:40 -0500
Subject: Re: New episodes?

Penny-

The new broadcast schedule starts the week of April 21 and runs 9 weeks
straight.  This is quite similar to what we did last year, only the big
block of episodes started the first week in April and ran through May.

I can tell you that there are some mighty cool shows in the batch, and
that the effects crew is really humping to make the satellite date on a
few of them.  (Hey, if it was easy, everybody would do it!:-)

George Johnsen
CoProducer, B5



Date: 2 Apr 1997 02:06:17 -0500
Subject: Re: B5 and "ethical" awards (ATTN JMS)

B5 has won the Space Frontier Foundation Award for Best Vision of the
Future, and an award from the American Cinema Foundation for presentation
of values in a dramatic television series.


 jms






Date: 2 Apr 1997 12:26:21 -0500
Subject: Re: StarFury vs. Thunderbolt

Hardware afficianados:

As in all warcraft, there are different purposes for different
vehicles.  The Starfury is still considered a front line craft by
Earthforce (and a lot of other people, evidently, as the Black Omega
Squadron uses it as their weapon of choice).  There are upgraded
versions of the 'fury still being built and used.  In fact, the retrofit
package is one of the things that the B5 armorers would dearly love to
get their hands on now that the station is embargoed.

Since the Thunderbolt is designed to handle atmospheric flight as well
as space flight, some compromises were made making it a different beast
to fly in space.  It is equipped with the latest in offensive and
defensive systems, and has more to keep under control than the 'fury,
hence the two person approach.  Control freak pilots don't care for the
'bolt, as it takes two to operate.  It does have heavier armor, as well
as the heat shielding that comes with atmospheric incursion.

There are other ships in the EA arsenal that are of slightly different
characteristic, like the Badger assault fighter and the Olympus class
Corvettes that give a wider range of capabilities of a pretty well
rounded force.  

I suspect that the Earthforce arsenal is made up of the pet projects of 
dreaming generals, greedy contractors, and plain old visionaries much
like ours is now.  This means that there is a wide range of hardware yet
to be seen.

George Johnsen
CoProducer, B5



Date: 3 Apr 1997 02:24:30 -0500
Subject: Re: ATTN JMS: B5 PRESS ALERT! I'm dealing with reporter; need advice

The only things I'd mention, that are worth passing on to the
reporter...the tendency of B5 to form communities...the use of fairly
rigorous science in the basis of the show, and how we've become NASA's
newest darling...the overall story arc...the ethical issues the show deals
with...all the obvious stuff.

If the reporter tries to create a B5 vs. ST dynamic, that's something to
be cautionary about.  But that's all.

Beyond that, you'll do fine.  Sheridan certainly hasn't had any problems
with reporters, after all....


 jms





Date: 4 Apr 1997 22:53:16 -0500
Subject: Re: ATTN GEORGE:  Severed Dreams nit-pick

John-

Yup.  The show was seriously under the gun for delivery when those shots
were done.  If I remember correctly, a couple of these shots came in on
the same day we were to deliver, and there was no time to re-render them
and still make the satellite.

If I were to tell you it would never happen again, I would be a big
liar, or a deluded optomist, but we try.  Animators are human, after
all!  :-)

George Johnsen
CoProducer, B5



Date: 5 Apr 1997 02:52:41 -0500
Subject: Re: Omega-class cruiser design

Kevin-

Methinks you refer to the Aggie Class, not the Omega, as the O's have no
rotator. 

Anyway-  The Destoyers are all business.  There is no need for extra
storage space onboard, and certainly no need for passengers!  This
allows for a portion of the cylinder describing the same arc as the full
cylider ships.  At one time, we strongly considered locking down the
rotator section during battle to increase manouverability, and  not
using a cylinder or sphere would have made this concept more practical
in presenting a narrower target to the opposition.  As it is, we
postulate that the control systems of the class can take into account
the additional torque generated by the spinning section. 

Besides- we would have to spend a heck of a lot more on filming Zero G
sequences if we locked down, or strap all the actors to their seats. 
Tough to do that acting thing in a 5 point belt for any length of time!

George Johnsen
CoProducer, B5




Date: 5 Apr 1997 02:52:59 -0500
Subject: Re: ATTN JMS

See, Joe uses this wacky keyboard, and sometimes he just misses! :-)

Yes, the new ones start with 410.  They will finish with 418 if and only
if I can keep my crew awake for that long......:-o

George J
CoProd, B5




Date: 5 Apr 1997 12:24:53 -0500
Subject: Re: Afraid to criticise? Hardly! (was: criticism of B5 in RASTb5)

>From the perspective of the staff, I can say that rastb5m gets read with
regularity, while rastb5 gets read from time to time.

The issue is not criticism, which usally has some basis when offered in
either group (okay, I'm being polite- sometimes it's just flamebait). 

The issue is civility.  When the work is treated with respect, whether
it is loved or hated, the poster gets taken seriously.  When the
criticism is thoughtful, we can agree or disagree, but at least we can
talk.  Whether it is through the moderator, or through moderation,
rastb5m is a more homey place to hang out.  

The fact is, there is not one episode that we wouldn't like to have at
least one more tweak on before it really escapes into the cosmos. As a
very good friend of mine says often, Art is never complete it is only
abandoned.  From that perspective, criticism is mutual.

George Johnsen
CoProducer, B5

PS- about the last scene bears...... really have to ask Joe.




Date: 6 Apr 1997 17:35:39 -0400
Subject: Re: ATTN GEORGE: Docking question

Docking Procedures are under the control of C and C as soon as they lock
on to their docking beacon.  Whenever a pilot tries an overide, you get
the potential for an accident, like we saw with G'kar's G'Quan Eth
plantin "By Any Means Necessary".

The station's synchronizers lock into the ship's local computers and
that's all that's needed.

George J
CoProducer, B5




Date: 6 Apr 1997 17:36:02 -0400
Subject: Re: ATTN JMS: Is B5 ready for HDTV?

There are several schemes in proposal form for both the upconversion on
standard broadcast, to make new sets useful with those who prefer to
continue to broadcast using the equipment they have, and downconversion
for those whop wish to watch a new channel with an old teevee set.  This
will take the form of an inline box that decodes the signal and puts out
a standard NTSC compatible signal.

I am off to the National Assoc of Broadcasters meeting to see what the
latest lies, er I mean proposals concerning HDTV are.  Rest assured that
B5 is ready whatever dopey backwards compatible signal format they come
up with. We do a conformed film neg of every episode for archival that
is just for this purpose.  CG and composites can be rerendered to
whatever new rez that is required, and we welcome the opportunity. 

The biggest problem is that storytellers and hardware folks aren't the
only ones with input into the standard.  The computer folks want in, and
this will make the format even more confused.  Recent gov rules have
allowed the standard to be made more computer friendly.  This means that
MSNBC is just the start!

George Johnsen
CoProducer, B5




Date: 6 Apr 1997 17:36:02 -0400
Subject: Re: ATTN GEORGE: Severed Dreams-hole in a WALL?

Boris-

We don't really know where the Marines actually penetrated, but their
first hole would be through the "floor". If we assume that they know the
station well, it is likely they would punch through an "unimproved", or
storage area first, as it would be easier than to burn through a fully
habitable area. Then they would go through a wall or a door to get at
the goal.  We postulate that they actually were shown entering through
their second burn, and entering the occupied area.

All the 95's are in the same relative position, sequenced from the
center.

George Johnsen
CoProducer, B5



Date: 7 Apr 1997 18:38:55 -0400
Subject: Re: Omega-class cruiser design

Okay, Okay- I'm the first contestant for the dumbass of the week award!

Of course it is the Omega Class.

Too many hours, too many ships, too many file names.  For those who
care, the files in Lightwave are labelled AgClasDestr, so I fell back on
most recent contact protocol.

Anyway, the rest of the answer does not suffer from the same caffeine
induced hallucination, and is correct.

George J
CoProd, B5




Date: 7 Apr 1997 18:39:40 -0400
Subject: Re: ATTN George: The transmition in Epiphanies (Spoilers)

David-

Believe it or not, that piece started as color bars.  It was twisted
using Flint software from Discreet Logoc on an SGI Maximum Impact using
fractal morphing plug ins.

Feedback is a wonderful thing......

It is certainly concievable that Fractint would work to create a similar
effect.

George Johnsen
CoProducer, B5





Date: 8 Apr 1997 18:02:31 -0400
Subject: Re: B5 Spinoff / In the Beginning.

Excuse me, but the Londo scene in question is the one that takes place
moments before Sheridan and Delenn are brought in, and then allowed to
escape.  (War Without End.)  He can't exactly see to their execution since
they outlive him in story continuity, now can he?


 jms





Date: 9 Apr 1997 15:05:06 -0400
Subject: Re: Omega-class cruiser design (POSSIBLE SPOILERS)



Mark and folks-
> :
> : POSSIBLE SPOILERS
> :
> :
> :
> :
> :
> :
> :
> :
> :
> :
> :
> :
> :
> :
> :
> :
> :
> :
> :
> :
> :
> :
> :


You have it substantially correct.  (Even though i have been known to
get it confooosed from time to time- too many hours, not enough pillows)

The Nova Class Dreadnaughts have been around for quite a long time, but
are getting a "sprucing up" for further development. As we discovered in
our own navy, there is a need for several classes of ship of varying
sizes.

 The Omega Class are the next development in that series.  The habitat
section was added, as well as more armored sections.  There is a further
development of that class under discussion.  You can also see some
design elements of the class contained in the Cortez.

The newer ships under development are all of smaller classes, like the
Olympus Class Corvette, the Badger heavy fighter, and the Cotten Class
Deep Penetration Tender.  We will see these participate heavily in the
second of the TNT movies.

George Johnsen
CoProducer, B5





Date: 10 Apr 1997 05:08:10 -0400
Subject: Re: ATTN JMS: Thanks for ICON!

Thanks...and your question was a good one, which is why I kinda moved away
from it....


 jms





Date: 10 Apr 1997 13:54:17 -0400
Subject: Re: Attn JMS: Ted Turner, WB and what if God was one of us.

Yes, the PTEN agreement excluded doing our show for first-run on
cable...but it was the only offer anybody made to us.  We took it, because
after five years of trying to find someone who'd trust us to do the show,
you don't walk away from the table once you have what you wanted.  Who
knew if it'd take *another* five years to get that far?  In year 1, it
wasn't the venues, it was the notion that a show like this could be *made
at all* let alone successfully.


 jms






Date: 10 Apr 1997 18:00:08 -0400
Subject: Re: attn jms : autograph queues

I think it would take about the same amount of time...and I don't know if
I could take it seriously, it's too much like a receiving line at
Buckingham Palace, and I share nothing in common with Lady Di (well, other
than the wardrobe, but I digress...).

(Then again, Di shaares nothing in common with Buckingham Palace
anymore...)


 jms





Date: 12 Apr 1997 00:14:06 -0400
Subject: Re: ATTN JOE: B5 Informational CD question please

Janet-

The CD will be multiple platform, as Joe uses several Intels, John
several Macs, and I use a PowerMac, 32 NT's and 24 Alphas.  We gotta be
able to run the darn thing ourselves!

George Johnsen
CoProducer, B5



Date: 12 Apr 1997 00:14:06 -0400
Subject: Re: ATTN GEORGE: Babylon 5 on DVD?

Clay, Jay, Claudia, and other DVD interested folks:

The discussions we have had concerning DVD with Warners have all been
based on 2 episodes per disk, with supplimental material, and full use
of DVD's capability. 

4 episodes per disc hits the compression scheme pretty hard, and I don't
like the way it looks, so we will stick with two per, IF this were to
become a product.

(Big IF by the way, for reasons we have already discussed in this forum)

And, btw, ehat do you mean where are you, George?  I've been here
working my behind off getting these episodes out!  :-)

George Johnsen
CoProducer, B5




Date: 12 Apr 1997 03:11:12 -0400
Subject: Re: Episode 422/522 Finale.. Question

"What are the chances of major spoilers being leaked from "Sleeping in
Light" over the next year?!?!?!?"

I'm sure some of that's bound to happen...but the reality of it is that if
you add up all the people who are online and might get this information,
you'd actually end up with only about 4% of the viewing audience...so
it'll still have its desired impact.


 jms





Date: 12 Apr 1997 19:07:41 -0400
Subject: Re: ATTN JMS: B5 airing order on TNT

We definitely plan to work with TNT to make sure the air order is correct.


 jms





Date: 13 Apr 1997 21:21:15 -0400
Subject: Re: ATTN JMS: I-CON notes and Drall

Yeah, Michael was down with a very serious 24-48 hour intestinal flu bug
that pretty much put him away, but he pushed past it to come to the con.


 jms





Date: 14 Apr 1997 04:21:40 -0400
Subject: Re: ATTN JMS: Gratuitous use of the word "Hell"

The hell you say....


 jms





Date: 15 Apr 1997 19:54:57 -0400
Subject: Re: ATTN GEORGE, JMS: the monkey, the nut, and the jar

> Do you enjoy it enough to want to do it again?
> Can B5 episodes be re-rendered well enough for theater sized screens?

Yes and Yes.  The resolution of the renders we are doing now allow for
the highest rez digital video storage currently available in NTSC. For
theatrical release, all we need do is flip this little chromium switch
here.......and out comes a ready to transfer film frame render.


> Not only would it be nice to see B5 on a really big screen "TV",
> if fans flock to theaters to see B5 episodes,  WB's mind-set might allow
> it to issue video tapes.

I'm not really sure if this is a plausible strategy.  Someone at
Warner's would need to book the theatres, and that would be the same
folks who think home video wouldn't fly.

> Does B5 have press kits that it gives to reporters?
> If so, would WB allow tapes of "And Now for a Word" and "The Illusion
> of Truth" to go into the press kits?
> B5 might get more requests for press kits than there are reporters.
> JMS would report this sad situation to WB with the suggestion that he
> start charging most folks (non-reporters) for press kits.

Creative thinking, but......

 
> To sell "The Coming of Shadows" as a promotional item, would JMS have
> to talk to the same monkey (Warner Home Video?) that has its hand around
> the nut in the jar?

Yup.  The home video issue is truly Warner's to deal with.  We can hope
that it will eventually be dealt with, but i sure wouldn't guess when or
in what format.

George Johnsen
CoProducer, B5




Date: 16 Apr 1997 06:13:58 -0400
Subject: Re: ATTN JMS: new 67 year old viewer

That's truly wonderful...thanks for that report, it made my day.  Best to
your dad.


 jms





Date: 18 Apr 1997 19:31:42 -0400
Subject: Re: Attn JMS: How's you directing debut going

Not directing yet, still in prep, balancing that with finishing writing
the first two movies.  Just finished the first draft on the second one
this morning (about 4:45 am), then planning to take the weekend to revise
them both.  Then it's back to prep.  Expect me to be offline a lot during
that period, because I'll be going in at 6:25 a.m. and wrapping every day
at 7:00 p.m.


 jms





Date: 21 Apr 1997 00:52:53 -0400
Subject: Re: ATTN JMS: Watching 24 B5 eps in a row...

(grinning ear to ear)

Thank *you*.


 jms





Date: 21 Apr 1997 14:40:44 -0400
Subject: Re: ATTN JOE: Surviving the idiots


One simply learns.

And when negotiation fails, you just roll in a grenade and come in firing.


 jms






Date: 23 Apr 1997 03:30:29 -0400
Subject: Re: ATTN JMS: Happy Passover!

I do not celebrate Passover (wrong group, and I'm an atheist in any
event), but I will pass along your kind wishes to the rest.


 jms





Date: 23 Apr 1997 17:47:55 -0400
Subject: Re: ATTN: JMS: Sleeping in the Light


"But seriously, what kind of responses do you expect to see in this
newsgroup
the week following the last episode?"

In a way you're kind of asking the wrong person, as I'm inside the
fishbowl and can't see the show the way anyone outside can see it.  The
only gauge I have is the reaction the script got around the stage when
people on the crew and cast read it.  (With a note attached explaining the
possibility of airing it as 522 or 422, but that either way thsi would end
up the story.)

Pretty much everybody cried.  I came home to a message on my machine from
Mira, who was almost unable to speak, and another from Claudia who said
she was honored and proud to be a part of this, and the script had made
her cry.  Bruce, Richard, big beefy guys on the crew...all said the same
thing.  And there I have to concur; I lost is several times as I was
writing it, due to the content; there's one scene in particular...you'll
know it when you see it...that put me away for an hour when I finished
writing it.

But here's the thing...*every single person* who cried at the script,
ended it feeling that it was not a sad script in the end, or a down
ending...that it left them feeling proud, and tall, and *positive*...that
life goes on...that it was a reaffirmation of life itself, on its most
primal level.  They felt good about the ending.  And that was a great
relief for me, because I was trying something *very* difficult from a
writing perspective, and at first blush it looks as if I've pulled it off.
 (Now I get to go in as director and *totally* screw it up.)

Only one fan has read the script...someone whose opinion I trust.  Because
I was curious about the reaction from that side of the screen.  And the
reaction was *exactly* the same.

So how do I think people will react?

I think a lot of people will cry.

But by the end of it, I think it will come around, and be all right...and
mainly, that people will then look back at the whole story, through all
these long years, and say, "It was a good story."  And close the cover,
and put it on the shelf with the other books that will be reread again
down the years, and turn off the lights, and go to bed feeling that the
time was well spent.

Which is the most any writer can ever ask for.  To tell a tale worth
telling  To make people cry.  To make people laugh.  And even, once in a
while, make them think about things, and see the world just a little
differently than when they began.

And then they can centerpunch me on the freeway, or throw a plane at me,
and I won't even mind.  Because everything I set out to prove, I proved. 
Everything I set out to say, I said.  

I've carried this story like a hermit crab carries its shell for five long
years, counting the pilot.  It's been an *awfully* long and difficult
road, and no one will ever really know just how hard this show was to
make.  Nor should they, because it isn't the difficulty that makes the
story, the *story* makes the story.  But one way or another, aired as 522
or 422, when it airs the burden is off at last.  Then it no longer belongs
to me.  It belongs to you.  As should be.

And, in the end, I think you'll be pleased.


 jms







Date: 25 Apr 1997 17:53:36 -0400
Subject: Re: ATTN JMS OR GEORGE: ships changing size?

Boris-

Actually, we never change the size of the ships. (Okay, before you start
furiously typing...)   The lenses that we use change often, and
depending on the style of lens selected, the ships may appear closer or
farther away from another object.  This makes things confusing for
sure.  Add to that that the relative distance between two objects may be
compressed to allow for better screen composition, and we may start to
explain what you are realizing.  The hardware of B5 is a bit "undefined"
from a tech point of view.  This will be remedied in upcoming
publications.

George Johnsen
CoProducer, B5




Date: 25 Apr 1997 18:37:25 -0400
Subject: Re: Heartfelt thanks!

Thanks.  And at least one of your wishes is assured...TNT will air reruns.
 The rest is still being discussed.


 jms





Date: 15 May 1997 22:51:24 -0400
Subject: Re: Action figures?

As much as i would like to have them on my desk....

There has not been a license granted for traditional action figures at
this time.

George Johnsen
CoProducer, B5




Date: 22 May 1997 02:31:39 -0400
Subject: Re: Contract Questions

	--Considering the way you have been jerked around by WB, what are 
your contract obligations to them, beyond the end of B-5? 
	--If you are then a "free agent" with whom would you partner for 
future TV projects?
	--Are there any other brain-children waiting in the wings?
	--Are any scifi TV projects contemplated?

My contract is specifically for B5, if it were to go away (and there's
some interesting, positive movement going on behind the scenes right now)
I would have no further obligations or ties to WB.  I've turned down a
number of network gigs along the way, preferring to stay with B5 (even
though some of them would've paid twice or more what I get on B5) so
finding another berth wouldn't be hard.

And yeah, I have some other projects simmering in the background that
might go with or without a fifth season.


 jms





Date: 23 May 1997 00:20:43 -0400
Subject: Re: ATTN: JMS, *ALERT*  *ALERT*

The host misspoke...


 jms





Date: 23 May 1997 01:33:52 -0400
Subject: Re: ATTN JMS:  Anything special done on last day of Shoot?

Around lunchtime, I began to notice people filtering out -- crew and
others -- wearing white t-shirts with blue lettering that read, on front,
"Shhh...the Great Maker is Directing."  And on the back, "...and on the
seventh day we wrapped." JMS 4:22 May 5, 1997.  It was a nice thing, and
we're considering making the shirts available via the fan club.

Since it's customary for directors to bring in food on the last day of an
episode shoot, I brought in food at the end of the day, and folks stayed
around until late in the evening, just hanging around, chatting, eating,
and the like.  (I headed home around 7 mainly because I was just bushed.) 
We also took a big family picture that will go into the end credits of the
episode, whenever it will finally air.  A lot of our past directors, crew,
actors and others showed up for the thing, and stayed for the party,
knowing that either way, this was going to be the last episode of the
series, whether it's 4 or 5 years.  

Then everybody went away for a few days, and now we're back shooting movie
#1, "Thirdspace."


 jms





Date: 23 May 1997 18:34:46 -0400
Subject: Re: ATTN JMS: Spoilers: Episode 422 Confusion

"In other words, because 422 takes place in the far future (2281), it is a

stand-alone episode.  It can be dropped into ANY position in the B5
schedule 
....as long as its last.  Correct?"

Bingo.


 jms






Date: 23 May 1997 19:52:57 -0400
Subject: Re: ATTN JMS:  522 always 2281?

Yes, the final chapter in the series was always going to fall in 2281, 20
years after the events in 2261.


 jms





