JMS (and coproducer George Johnsen) Usenet messages for September 1997.


Date: 16 Sep 1997 15:22:56 -0400
Subject: Re: ATTN JMS: Writing and Music

>When I sit down to write, I tend to pick out a CD and set
>it to loop only noticing hours later that I'd heard it 7 or 8 times in a
>row (which drive my wife nuts).  Are you also a victim of the writing
>coma?

What an interesting question....

There's this thing called "state related learning," which means that if
you learn something while, say, in a given room, or under certain specific
conditions, you will be able to remember it better in that same condition
or state.  

When I'm writing, often I'll find or stumble upon a CD that puts me in the
right state of mind to work on it...and when I go in the next day, or a few
hours later, that one will be the one I fire up, to get me going.  So it
may play a lot over the course of a number of days.  It ain't *all* I
listen to, though I do sometimes listen to it sequentially, I can't listen
to just one thing endlessly, but it does get played a lot.

That's the first time I've been asked that question.  It's rare when I
find a new one.  Thanks.


 jms





Date: 18 Sep 1997 02:17:04 -0400
Subject: Re: ATTN: JMS at Defcon 4 in Tulsa

The problem is in getting to Tulsa from LA...there is no good way to get
there, they ALL require 2 planes, the latter invariably being a putt-putt
job, and the shortest layover is about 90 minutes, and the show requires
some time spent here that day...so I won't be in on Friday until late, but
the main presentations are Saturday at 1:00 in any event, and on Sunday, so
that's fine.


 jms





Date: 18 Sep 1997 02:21:13 -0400
Subject: Re: ATTN: JMS. Not at all important question

>  I was wondering what television shows have influenced you with reguards
>to your writing?   What shows did you watch before (or even after) you
>started your writing career that you consider to have a large impact on
>the way you view television?

I'd say that the original Twilight Zone was a big  influence, as was the
Outer Limits, the Prisoner, Blake's 7, and the original Trek.  The writers
most influential were Serling, Chayefsky, Reginald Rose, Matheson,
Bradbury, Ellison.
>
>  And the question that I am always dying to ask creators of my favorite
shows. 

>Did you ever catch the British espionoge show, The Sandbaggers? If
>so what was your opinion of it?  How about the muhc more recent EZ Streets
>and PIcket Fences? 
>
Only saw Picket Fences of those three, which I enjoyed, though it got
kinda wonky in its last season or two.



 jms





Date: 18 Sep 1997 02:26:17 -0400
Subject: Re: Attn JMS: Can B5 get an Emmy? Ever?

>Seems to be some old story going around about how B5 isn't eligble for an
>Emmy for some reason. I remember WB had something to do with it, said they
>didn't want it in there for consideration - will that change at all with
>the recent TNT deals, or is B5 just never going to be eligible

No, we're eligible, and have been nominated and have won in other
categories in the past, though all below the line stuff (i.e., not in the
writing/directing/acting categories).  

We had some problem when we (like 90% of other shows) sent tapes of our
episodes to Academy members, many of whom had not been aware of the show. 
Some people in WB PR got upset because we kind of upstaged them, and
insisted we not do so again.  TNT, on the other hand, is going to be very
helpful to us in this in future.

However, since we are syndicated, and SF, the academy (which notoriously
ignores both categories) we will almost certainly continue to be ignored.


 jms





Date: 18 Sep 1997 05:24:00 -0400
Subject: Re: ATTN JMS:

>The Drazi god seems to bear an awfully strong
>resemblance to the Chief of the Vogon Constuctor Fleet in "The
>Hitchikers Guide to the Galaxy"

It was built up around a buddhist statue, as I recall.


 jms

Date: 23 Sep 1997 03:14:09 -0400
Subject: Re: ATTN JMS/GEORGE: A question about the TNT deal

What we've been told by TNT is that they "intend to run B5 until they wear
out the sprocket holes," meaning that they're going to keep doing it for a
long, long time....


 jms





Date: 23 Sep 1997 03:15:31 -0400
Subject: Re: attn JMS: Warner Bros Negotiations

>I'm curious as to whether or not you have any part in the negotiations for
>stations/networks that carry B5; like Space:TIS in Canada (the new SF
>network).  
>
>--

No, I've never been involved with that part of it in any way.


 jms





Date: 23 Sep 1997 03:22:53 -0400
Subject: Re: MODERATE ME: Open letter from Spider Robinson

I think Spider's got a perfectly valid point.  

I can't see much in there to disagree with.


 jms

Date: 23 Sep 1997 17:08:37 -0400
Subject: Re: ATTN JMS:  Casting of Rebo & Zooty

>
>Joe,
>
>I heard a rumor that Rebo and Zooty may make an appearance in season 5.  
>Is this true?  If so, I'd like to make a casting suggestion.  
>
>With a name like Zooty, I picture a short, somewhat squeaky-voiced type 
>of guy.  I believe the perfect choice for this role is none other than 
>Harlan Ellison.  Just imagine him lifting his leg and saying "Zooty - 
>Zoot Zoot".   I bet he'd work real cheap too.  
>
>Rebo would probably be the straight man in the act.  You'd need a big, 
>tall guy with a wry wit.  Someone with a natural chemistry with Harlan's 
>character.  Who could be better qualified than yourself?  Why not, 
>you've done just about everything else on the show .  It'd be great to 
>see you in a cameo.
>
>What do you think?   :)

I suggest Thorazine, and lots of it.

jms


 jms





Date: 23 Sep 1997 18:06:47 -0400
Subject: The Exercise of Vital Powers ( *Spoilers* )

Spoilers for The Exercise of Vital Powers

























>
>Okay--in the last scene, when Garibaldi comes into Edgars's living
>room to tell him that he's "in", Edgars is sitting on the sofa
>reading a book. I suddenly realized I MUST know what book he was
>reading.

The Bible.


 jms

Date: 24 Sep 1997 03:57:28 -0400
Subject: Re: ATTN JMS: More "Captain Power" Info

The entire story is bogus.  This is just some company or person who has
the rights to the old episodes, and may be trying to whip up enthusiasm.

Whatever the case...we spoke to the folks at Landmark today, which company
owns CP lock, stock and barrel, and they categorically denied that ANYthing
is in the works.  They've been trying to get something off the ground for a
long time, but no, there are NO new episodes in the pipeline.  It's a bogus
story.


 jms





Date: 24 Sep 1997 18:09:31 -0400
Subject: Re: ATTN: JMS-B5 at the University

Unfortunately, neither we nor WB are in a position to make tapes
available; they will have to come through other sources.  I can only convey
my best wishes and good luck with the class.

You may also want to check in with the folks at the University of York who
are doing an academic conference on B5 in December in case there are any
papers that could be purchased and used.


 jms





Date: 24 Sep 1997 21:34:08 -0400
Subject: Re: JMS: CGI setup?

No, the setup hasn't changed.


 jms

Date: 26 Sep 1997 02:52:37 -0400
Subject: Re: ATTN: JMS (was Re: JMS on CompuServe (Sep 25, 1997))

Baltimore will be Worldcon in July.


 jms





Date: 27 Sep 1997 14:17:34 -0400
Subject: jms a bit out of action

Last Sunday, while at a convention in Tulsa, I threw my back out very
badly about 90 minutes before I was to do my second presentation (slipped
in the shower and badly wrenched my back).  Though I could barely move (a
very nice lady tied my shoes for me because I couldn't reach that far
without blacking out from the pain), I did the presentation anyway because
I knew that a number of fans had driven as long as 5 hours to be there and
I was determined not to let them down...and apparently that was a mistake,
because though it seemed to be getting better Monday and Tuesday, by
Wednesday it's almost incapacitated me.  Have been offline for 24 hours,
seeing doctors and getting drugs (have all the advice and pharmaceuticals I
need just now, thanks), and the few hours I have where I can be behind a
keyboard have to be put in on scripts.  So I'll be a bit diminished here
until I'm on my feet again.  Could be just a few days, maybe longer.  



 jms

Date: 27 Sep 1997 19:12:05 -0400
Subject: Re: ATTN JMS: New Ep titles?

In no particular order....

The Paragon of Animals...In the Kingdom of the Blind...The Day of the Dead
(Neil Gaiman's script)...A View from the Gallery...The Very Long Night of
Londo Mollari...No Compromises...Strange Relations....


 jms





Date: 29 Sep 1997 09:43:25 -0400
Subject: Re: ATTN JMS:  B5 Shot Glass?

> No, I'm not confused; the confused person here is the one who claims to
>> find alcohol abuse an ugly thing, and appears to have childhood memories
>> of the horrific effect of intrafamilial alcoholism, whether in his own
>> or someone else's...... and yet takes a willing part in the glorification
>> of a product....

Creation secured a license for glassware; I approved the license artwork,
not thinking of anything other than regular glassware (mugs, whatever).  I
was as astonished to see it used on shot glasses as anyone else...and
subsequently made a recent call to Warner Bros. asking that the license for
this particular item not be renewed after they are finished selling the one
already made.  It's my fault, I should've anticipated a shot glass, it's
just not something that I think of, but there's no reason to penalize
Creation by making them warehouse stuff they can't sell.   So they'll sell
what's there on hand, and that will be the end of it.

It's already a dead issue.




 jms





Date: 29 Sep 1997 20:25:20 -0400
Subject: Re: So long... [SiL spoilers]

>Up to ItF was good, but I can't stand the aftermath, or what I see as JMS'
>condescending and holier than thou attitude towards fans.
>
>

I was going to respond politely until I got to this part.  Let me put this
to you plainly:

You are an idiot if you take these spoilers at face value, and an equal
idiot if you think from this you know how it's all going to go down.

You don't know what SiL is about, since that hasn't been released in any
form, btw, not even synopses...and for some time now I've been deliberately
leaving some info out of the synopses *specifically* because people like
you, who look ahead and write off the shows forthcoming, piss me off no end.  

All I can say in conclusion is that your analysis of what's coming in the
storylines is SO off-course, SO ill-informed and wrongheaded that it's
hardly worth addressing.  You've not only jumped to conclusions, you've
jumped right off the cliff.  Maybe, rather than being prejudicial, you
might actually want to *see* what's there before making a judgment about
it.  This is no different than the fundamentalists who pass judgment about
a film based on what they read about it, rather than first-hand experience.

Hope that wasn't too condescending....or the little gift I dropped into
"Deconstruction" for folks who read spoilers and then dismiss the show as a
result.


 jms

Date: 29 Sep 1997 21:48:03 -0400
Subject: Re: ATTN JMS: ReBoot 3rd season

I don't know if it's still the case, but Larry DiTillio, story editor for
2 years on B5, was/is the story editor on ReBoot, and he's always been big
on arcs, which is why he came to B5 in the first place.


 jms





Date: 29 Sep 1997 21:51:35 -0400
Subject: Re: ATTN JMS: Question regarding a 6th season

I didn't say it would be difficult to turn down doing a 6th season, but
that the situation would *be* difficult.  Obviously, their first choice
would be to have me do it...but just as obviously I don't want to do a
sixth season, 'cause the story ends in 5, and even TNT has been actively
promoting S5 as the last season of B5.  Now, in theory, WB could do B5
without me, since they own the copyright, and that would be the last bullet
in their gun if I got real difficult about it.

The only other option would be to do a "Tales from Babylon 5" sixth
season, which would be an anthology series, to all intents and purposes,
using our characters almost like a repertory group.

But we'll see...it's still a long way off, and as Ted Kennedy once said,
we'll drive off that bridge when we come to it.


 jms





Date: 30 Sep 1997 15:11:36 -0400
Subject: Re: ATTN : JMS (or TWIMC)

> Now there don't seem to be any more! I've asked here
>previously, as well as sending messages to babylon5.com, but still
>haven't heard a thing.

Now that the show has moved on to TNT, rather than going througn WB itself, WB
 has kinda moved on in many respects.  TNT will be leading the vanguard from
 now on.


 jms





